## 2015 - Agile & Lean Techniques for Leaders

So what we do at lean dog, we do two things. We're about 70 people. We design and build software and about robotics, embedded systems, mobile stuff. And then we travel around the country speaking at conferences and helping people change their corporate culture to be more lean and agile. When we go in and help people, we usually help the whole culture, not just the IT teams. So it's a whole business changing to that culture. Today, what we're going to talk about is leadership. Okay, so how do we get executives or people leading teams? How what things can you guys do today to kind of create a more transparent, open, honest culture? The best analogy I have for agile for people who know what Agile Lean is, it's a set of values and principles. But in a big way, what we're doing is we're taking people back to kindergarten, right? When you went to kindergarten, you walked in, and everybody was innocent, right? Some most right? And everybody sat in a big open workspace all their homework was up on the wall, right? They had learning time, they had quiet time. They got to school on time, they went home on time, and they had recess, okay. And that's about the closest to what I can say we're done with that John leaves, we're trying to take companies back to that. So we can tear down their cubicles, their sensory deprivation chambers, right, their whole being a silo and only been only working in one one skill. That's not what humans are good. Humans enjoy going lateral, not just vertical. And so we really try to teach people how to do that. So whether it's an IT marketing, whatever it is, high performing team, the most fun most people have was in kindergarten, right? And so we need to kind of get back to that, where we're just one big team, valuing the diversity that's in the room. Okay. So, this I've been, when I started lean dog in 2008, I started doing a talk called Agile from the top down. And over the years, it's changed into a practice because as I was trying to practice what I preach and running our company this way companies came in. So that's awesome. Can you teach us how to do that. So it wasn't my intention that we do this. So the goal of this talk really just show you how we run lean dog, and all the things that we do that are working for us. And and hopefully, you'll get something out of that, and you can take it back and try it. But most of it is like kindergarten, it really is stupid, simple, right? That's why it works. Okay. So the first thing that people have to understand is that anytime you're going to change something, so however your team is performing today, or leading today, if you're gonna change something in any culture, and when I was doing this for a very large company, and I surrounded myself by people in psychology, sociology, human resources, you name it, right? Just a very eclectic group of people that knew way more than computer science and said, Hey, how can we actually create a really high performing organization? It says, this is some of the stuff I learned those sociologists taught me that how many people have heard of Rogers adoption curve is assumed in marketing, that's like a big thing. But anyways, anytime you're trying to get something, somebody to do something new, even if it's not new, but it's new to them. In any culture, you're gonna have a certain percentage of the people who are innovators, but 2.5%, early adopters, early majority, late majority. So a lot of companies we go into, and they're like, well, I need you to help me change 5000 20,000 50,000 people to work in this way. And they get overwhelmed with the size of the elephant, like, Oh, where do we start? Well, reality is let's start with the people who are innovators, the change agents in your company, the thought leaders, then let's work with the early adopters. And then the early majority, once we get about 20% of the organization changed every everybody else, start copying the good things that work. So you don't have to change everybody. But you have to get all those good people up front leading the change. Okay. So think about in your organization, you who are the people, if you had to put their names up here and put them in a closet, where would you put them, right, and you can read more about that. But so often, when we start trying to introduce new things, we often refer to this curve, any human is going to do something new, kind of goes through these stages, right? First, they have to be aware of what's new, then they have to consider it, then you have to investigate it, then you have to pilot it, then they adopt a new way of working right. And then they adapt it. So we really like to like tweak it a little bit. So we can call it our own. It's just human tendency, like you don't own it until you've changed it. So anytime you learn something new, you always tweak it. And once you adapt that, then it's kind of stuck in your culture. So a lot of these practices I'm gonna talk to you about, you'd have to take your teams through this curve of learning. This is probably one of the most key concepts that go in Agile, it's called information radiators came from a methodology called Crystal. But humans, it's really easy for us. Everybody wants to make everybody happy. It's really easy to look at and say, Yeah, were you on the same page with me? Yes. Right. And we think we are. But reality is, and you guys probably know this better than I do. Humans are very visual people, right? visual interpretation is the fastest form of interpretation. So if we take what we think we have in our head, and we make a physical and put it on the wall, now we can talk about it. We're really on the same page. Okay. Now, we realize we aren't so now we can converge right? It makes sure that we're moving moving forward. And so we use information radiators like crazy. If you come to our boat, almost every window on the boat, it's 10,000 square foot boat. Almost every boat is covered with paper posts and those brown paper, painters tape yarn ribbon, you know kindergarten, okay? Because we don't use tools and software even though we build software. We don't use that to control how we work. Right How we can visually interpret something put it on the wall is the key So, a big thing of what we do a lot of what we do when we when people come in, they say, Hey, can you help us create a high performing team? I'm kind of like, What the hell do you guys do? Right? Like, I can't change what I don't know, right? So we come in and we say, hey, let's start putting some walls up, we buy brown paper, with paper, every single wall, we say, okay, these are some of the walls we create, you know, who are you? What do you do? Where are your customers? Who are the personas, your customers? What are your products, how your organization is structured, where the technical applications you work in, you know, what vocabulary you use to talk about your value stream, or how you do your work? What departments do you have? How do you measure performance? How do you measure business results? How do you run financials, how much money you have in a bank account, right? Anything, everything that you think you manage this is in the system. And to create a high performing team, people have to know how they fit in the system. Okay, because I don't mind changing positions in the system, if I understand why, right. So as a leader, that's the most confusing thing is like all these leaders are just changing what they want all the time. No, no, they actually tried to understand the whole system. And they're tuning all these different parts of the systems trying to get a high value business to run. Okay, but it's not clear because we haven't made information radiators. So we'll go into company spend a couple of weeks as an example. We create a backlog of hey, what are all the things we can visualize? Visualize your hardest problems first, right? So for example, often this work often 99% of companies go to have way too much work in progress. Right. Is there anybody here underworked? Right, right? So so we go in and we say let's start with your work. Well, what are all the projects in play? We kind of model all that out. And we break up into teams, and we partner with the leadership teams to create these walls.


## AgileTO Quicktalk with Jon Stahl - Tools for Agile in a Distributed World

It's my pleasure today to introduce John star who's coming with joining us all the way from Cleveland, Ohio. John is an Agile and Lean coach and a president and CEO of Lean dog, and agile consulting coaching and training company. You know, as the world has been forced to find new ways of connecting and collaborating, John has found ways to continue to embrace an Agile and Lean mindset. He'll be talking to about some of the tools and techniques that I worked for him and and how they can they can be leveraged to foster connection and togetherness, even in a remote and distributed world. So thank you for being with us today, John, and warm welcome from agile Toronto, over to you.

Okay. Thank you. So let me share my screen. Okay, so yeah, this is my thank you for having me. I'm one of the few Americans was able to cross the border, I think. So. We're in Cleveland's, or across the pond. And I look forward to this. So this is my first quick talk. It's kind of like a lightning talk. For me. I talk fast anyway, so this shouldn't be a problem. But we're going to fly through a lot of slides. And my goal today is to share with you some best practices when we got thrown into this pandemic. So I've been a lean dog we started 12 years ago, I grew up in Pittsburgh live in Cleveland, went to Ohio State used to be a software developer. That was my passion. I also got an econ degree. And the notice for a while, since XP, days before 2000, before the manifesto in 2001. This is our office in Cleveland. So we are on the water. That's at 92 bar, boats, toys. Once this pandemic, it's over, come visit us got 110 parking spots, toys are right next to the Coast Guard, a Rock Roll Hall of Fame. We're tied to World War Two submarine. So there's some neat stuff to do in Cleveland. So love to have you come over. Prior to starting lean dawg, I was leading the transformation for nationwide. That's how I got my start in this I hired ThoughtWorks. Back in 1998. They helped me do extreme programming, and got pretty passionate about it was eventually asked to help transform how 5000 people worked, and did that for six years and eventually started lean dog. So this is my passion. So today, what I'm gonna talk to you about is, are three techniques to enable open workspace information radiators, and provide a positive feedback for your agile teams. So let's talk about open workspace. So right prior to COVID, right, it was one of the first in our class, the first thing we would teach us, Hey, y'all need to set up a workspace share a monitor, share a screen, pair share everything you learn, create this continual learning environment, reduce waste, because, you know, we're community constantly focused on value. And we're focusing on how to get value delivered. And so that's great, but then COVID hits. And now that sounds like it's insane, because people could potentially get sick and die. So overnight, we were all thrown into this world of Okay, now, how do we do Agile without an open workspace? And just like we're today, we're on a zoom call, I think we've all been kind of zoomed to death, we were in a happy open workspace environment, getting all the benefits of that. And then we move into zoom. So after, when COVID hit lien dog, we've been working with a firm out of Paris, France, to actually call to Coco, that and we aren't partners with them, we just we were at the time. And we basically, were working on how can we provide distributed agile. So right now, when we talk to all of our corporate customers, one of the biggest complaints is death by meetings. I mean, like one hour video, call a video call video call. And as you know, it takes time to schedule these meetings, people tend to show up a little bit late sometimes. So every meeting seems to start like five or 10 minutes after the start time, because we're always waiting on someone. And then of course, since we're human, we want to be cordial with each other. So it's like, Hey, how was your weekend? You know, how's COVID treating you? You know, how's your family? And so we always start off with some chatter at the beginning. Because that's what you do when you start an hour long meeting. You kind of be cordial as humans, and have that environment. Well, that's great. And it's nice. That's also a little bit of waste. Because we all know each other, maybe we can just get the work. And we were an open workspace we really have that. So let's talk about let's talk I'm sorry, went backwards. So one of the challenges with one of the benefits of workspace was that finding information is motion and lean. Right? So anytime you get stuck with your work, and I need to ask Noel or or Jeff or somebody a quick question. I typically just want to say Hey, can you help me with this piece of information so I can continue to move my work forward. And when we are in this virtual distributed environment, it's hard to know that but Everybody's remote. You're working from home, you can't tell who's busy, who's not busy. You can't look across the room and see, Am I interrupting? Noel? I'm just good time to talk to Jeff. And also I can't hear other conversations. So I don't know who's talking to who I don't know what meetings everybody else is in. And I don't know what they're talking about. Right. And we had that when we had an open workspace. And that was one of the biggest benefits of an open workspaces. Are those two things right? Getting unblocked because you need information or jumping in and overhearing other conversations, contributing your knowledge and getting the work done. And so scheduling meetings takes time. It's hard to do, and it's never fun. So I'm going to show you a tool called JaCoCo. And this tool was it's pretty early stages of development. It's been around for a while, the company was kind of struggling pre COVID. Now they're growing at like 33,000%, because of COVID. So what you're looking at here is a blueprint, okay. And this is the blueprint of an office. This is a custom office we had made for lien dog because we're on the water. So you can see there's a boat, and there's all these different rooms. Now what I want to do is I'm actually going to give you a live demo, let me do share, and move over to cocoa and show you this in action. So this is my Lyndoch team. This is my back office. You can see we have different rooms. We have a marketing room staffing room, a finance room, my room, we have a team room, Amy has a room. And these folks are all busy. So Amy's over here, I could jump over to the team room. So I click over into here. I can right click on Amy, and I could do I could work. I can get Amy, I shouldn't be able to her is her door locked. I can get July's. I can get Josh. So what I'm doing is saying, Hey, I'd love to have a conversation with you. So instead of scheduling a call, I'm doing a get request, basically. And Amy must have her door lock. So I must be I need to knock on John as a demo going good. We're just starting. So July CES in Las Vegas. Double click them to their own. So I'm over here. Let me move my screen around a little bit. So now what I need to do is I need to go to my microphone on. I'm gonna turn my video on. I'm trying to do a get on Amy. But I think she's got her door locked. And Josh is over here. Okay, so there we go. Didn't work. So, so I just basically called July's. And so what's nice is that I can have that quick conversation with July since a July. So I'm stuck on this story card. I need a little bit information. Can you help me if he thinks so we can pull other people into the room. July Stan has to turn on his microphone. And anybody can look in this room. Let me move my screen around a little bit bigger. You can look in the room, you can see that I'm actually talking. So if you notice how John's blinking that's blinking because my microphones on. If I wanted to share my screen, I could do that I won't do that. Another icon would pop up and see him sharing my screen. So what's nice about that July is obviously in Las Vegas, different timezone, you start sometimes early in the morning, there's often times where you live shows up for work, he signs into civico, I sign in, I see choices in his room, and I can quickly call him for a conversation. So we use this quite a bit. We use this to run our company. And we you know, we're having a business development meeting, we all know to jump in and business development room, we're going to talk marketing, we all know to click in the July there's room for working on staffing or finance. So we all just move about to the different rooms that we need. And again, you also have this locked door feature. So if I was in this room, and I didn't want anybody in I could lock the door. So now it's you can't just click into my room and over here my conversation. But if you're curious about we're talking about as well, it looks like there's a party going on the team room, three people were in there, you could just jump into the room and we say, you know, this is what we're talking about. So we will rename the team rooms based on the subject we're talking about. I can also mark mark my status as available that way busy Do Not Disturb. Right now we're using a CoCo video. But it also integrates with zooms Google teams,

Google, Microsoft Teams and all the other video tools. I think so Coco realized when COVID hit that they didn't want to become a video company. And that's because of security standards they want to embrace other video means. And again, it feels gives us that sense of place. I feel like Hey, I know everybody's around. I can see John's talking to Amy. And we can jump in it also supports chat and integrates with Slack. I can even send a guest link. So if I wonder like one of you who are part of lead dog and you're in my licensing, I can send you a guest link and then you can bounce into my room. And when you join me for a meeting in my room, you can't just go all around lean dog. You can't jump into dialyzers room say what's going on. I'm going to eavesdrop on their marketing plan. Right. You would have seen I would actually have to escort you so i could i Get clicking visualizes room, do a get request and then pull you along with me. So I'm doing this live demo, because this has definitely been a game changer for us. And we're working with our corporate customers. Again, we aren't not partners, we don't get any royalties and so on us to Coco. But it's given me that that sense sense of hey, team, and that ability to ping people, you can also have different rooms. So if you're working with a large company, up top, you see lean dogs. But if I had, let's say, I was, I don't know, Progressive Insurance, and I had a IT department or a Claims Department or a x ray department, you could have different blueprints for all the different departments in your company. So if you want to walk the floors, and basically go visit the marketing team, you could just switch from your team to the marketing team, and pop over there and have a chat with them. So it's been a pretty cool tool for us. They've been trying to scale. Somebody bought them in July sync three is the name of the company, they own a bunch of other tools, it's like $15 a month, and you get access to all their other tools if you buy it. So it's been it's been good for us. It's really reduced waste in a lot of ways. Because we don't have these one hour zoom meetings. Now we have this kind of impromptu ability to click around. So yeah, there's a lot more to it. But that's something you can google and check out. So let me exit that. And we go back to, again, my browser back to the presentation. Okay. All right. So I talked to these features, if you get the slide deck, all the talking points that I talked about should be in here. So let's talk about information radiators now, so pre COVID, right, you know, the power information radiator was it, it's really easy for humans to agree to things and agree that, you know, we're we all we're all on the same page. But then when we start to make things visible, physical through information, raters paper on the wall, we realize, wow, we're just off by a little bit. So that's going to shape our problem solving capabilities. Because if we're off just by just a hair, the action that we need to take to solve that problem could be different. So you know, once we get get on the same page to paper, and physical walls, now we can converge. And we can actually come up with a plan that we all 100% agree on, we aren't just nodding our head, yes, we actually understand the current state. And we can determine a future state and move to it. So that was great pre COVID. Right. And, in fact, that really, dog we relied on that heavily. In fact, so much so that when we lead transformations, we create what we call an A via, which is a big visible room in Japanese terms. And we let me see if my screen shares in the way here. And so we would basically create a big visual room. So we would go into a company, pre COVID. And we'd say, Okay, let's visualize everything you're doing. Right. So from what are your what's your mission, your vision, your company goals, your business domains, your plans, your organizational design, we put brown paper up, and we would we put brown paper up and we start visualizing. So this is an example we're looking at some ways organizational design, we're gonna visualize the future state of high performing teams, we would do all kinds of rooms like this. And it was great. Here's an org chart that we did pre COVID. Here's demand funnel. Here's technology soup, what's your architecture or your technologies that you're working with? Right, we here's more demand. So we did this quite a bit. So COVID hits and we're like, Okay, now what are we going to do? And we value stream map? I used to map out your work, right? I'm sure I'm not showing that you guys can't see the presentation. I was just gonna say, John, I think sharing the the app. Okay, let me do that. I didn't realize that. Okay, that's not good. Let's go back to chrome. Okay. Let me go back back a couple. So bottom line is we use the information radiators right to kind of visualize out. Can you see it now?

Yeah, yes, we can. Okay, so we

do a lot of information radiators with companies to kind of understand their demand, their value stream map, their agile adoption, their practices, their technology soup, right. And once we got a good understanding of their culture, then we could create a transformation plan that makes sense. So COVID hits and we're like, Okay, now what do we do? So there's two tools that we've been playing with Miro and mural, okay. And it's ironic that they're almost called the same thing. And they do almost the same thing. So they're pretty close in competition. We did a bake off. We first started with Miro, and use that to create whiteboards in work. This is an example of us running our back office, we had a Kanban board and we're left with a retrospective. We had sprint goals on how we run the company. We did that for I don't know three or four weeks. And then we started playing with mural, which is a competitor to them. Very, very similar products. We this is an example of a retrospective at Lena org. This is an example of current sprint goals that we did and you may be able to drop post it notes in pictures. There's tons of templates, integrations. And they also have, in this case, agile templates. So they have a roadmap retrospective, a wall of work. And we basically decided at lien dog we'd like mural better. We thought that usability was better. And then just recently like, see here, August 25. Right What days today, so. So they recently raised a whole bunch of capital because everybody's invested in online collaboration tools. They also announced a ton of Zapier integrations. And so we're pretty we're pretty big fans of mural right now, integrating with anything from Atlassian, to JIRA, to slack that Trello, just 1000s of integrations, and we've been using it to create these big visual rooms. The third tool that I want to share with you guys is okay, how do you do feedback. And this is something that we were doing at lean dog pre COVID, because we were trying to figure out how to become a good distributed agile coaches. And the reason is the tool that we use is called workplace. So Facebook basically took Facebook, they, in my opinion, copied it right and created workplace, workplaces only for corporations. Okay, we've been using this for Jesus, almost two years now, we were a beta out of Silicon Valley, using this, maybe three years now. And the reason it works is the like button, right? The power of the like button. So for us, you know, we have about 50 people at lean dog, we have clients all over the place all over the globe. And I have lots of agile coaching transformations we're doing. And I can't be everywhere at once. But I want to keep up with things, but I don't want to be down in the weeds. So what workplaces allows us to do is go in and basically see, you know, basically a bulletin board of discussions about whether we're talking about coaching, we're talking about leadership, we're talking about finance, we're talking about specific client, we have different kinds of rooms and groups for these different things. And I can go out at my convenience, and kind of read the thread and say things like, Hey, Doug Morgan, happy birthday to Amy and, you know, just as happy birthday. And you know, people have that magical like button. So in very little time I can go bounce through our clients bounce through the general forum, bounce through our coaching forums. And just like a bunch of things, I don't have to write the perfect email. I don't have to add the perfect emoji, right. But I people know that a Jon's actually paying attention at the surface level and he likes what he's seen. Okay, and so that's been a pretty cool tool for us. And we've been using that, like I said, pre COVID. Um, it has chat as video, there's all these tools have kind of similar thing. We don't use the chat or the video features of this. We use that in Sokoto, we just use this for having good group discussions and comments and things like that. Yeah, so that's my quick talk. I don't know how long it took me, but

you almost hit, you almost hit the timing mark. bang on. So well done. Congratulations. And thank you. That was nice. A couple of questions have already come in through the chat. Some people have sent them privately to me, which is fine. Happy to happy to get those or if you want to post your question. Publicly, you can do that as well. Or third, if you just want to say in the chat. Hey, Jeff, I've got a question. I'll make sure that that I get a chance to get a chance to call you on that. One of the interesting questions that came up, John is as we were going through this talked about facilitation in a virtual environment and engaging people in a different way. I'm wondering if you have any sort of experience or thoughts as to, you know, these tools are emulating a lot of the in person conversations. But what's had to what's had what has had to change and what's been able to stay the same in terms of actually facilitating great conversations using these tools.

So it's a great question. So, you know, just like, you know, if I was if any of us were standing up an Agile team, usually one of the first thing you do is you establish your team norms. Right. So when are we going to have our ceremonies? When what's our behavior going to be across the team? You know, what time stand up retrospective show entails? So I think the biggest one was cover for me has been turn your video on. Okay. Had to be a new team norm. You know, it's even now like, it's hard. Right now, I can see three of you, right? out of, you know, 6252 or something. And so, you know, out of respect, you know, that's one of the Hey, thank you. There you go. Turn them on. Yeah. And so that's one of the big things is asking people to turn their video on. And obviously, mute, you know, there's got to be a good moderator who can mute people, because no matter what, I got a tractor driving up here in the background. I don't know if you can hear it. But there's always something going on, because we're all working from home. So the noise distractions are big. And so yeah, it's the biggest one is readjust your team norms and say, how should we behave when we're virtual? And having a camera on to me is the biggest one because it's hard to see if you're picking up what I'm putting down if I can't see, you

know, that's, that's cool. When you started using SoCoCo, and some of these other tools and all of this, this virtual collaboration, how did the quantity to two parts of this actually How did both the quantity and quality of the interactions change or evolve? Or did they?

Yeah, that's a good question. Um, So we cut, when we started using some cocoa, we immediately got out of meeting paralysis, right? Because we said, hey, we have the right to walk up to anybody and tap on the shoulder and get information, or share information. So that that was huge. In fact, we've deployed this now to two or three with three corporate customers. And they found the same thing they weren't, I asked them, Hey, how's it working? Is it while I'm working more hours with COVID than I did before, because I'm in meeting after meeting after meeting, I don't have time to get work done. Like I don't have time to get hands to the keyboard to get work done. And they also find that people will multitask because we're human. So that's why you turn your video off. And so if you turn your video off, you could do whatever you want, I'm not going to know the difference. And so, you know, they found that they were having more meetings, getting less quality, because people were multitasking, right, because they could turn their screen off and just do what they want. And so when we went when we go to sit cocoa, it's pretty in your face, we do our stand up to read everything we do, is in there and, and there is no option we don't ever talk without the screen on. And we're all in, it's always superb. And if I if I'm busy, I can change my status to busy or unavailable, I can say, hey, I'm speaking agile Toronto, I'll change my status to say that. And then people know, John, or I'm walking my dog or I'm cutting the grass, whatever it is. So I think that's helped, I think we update our unavailable status to be much more accurate now out of respect for each other, rather than just saying, Hey, I'm busy. I don't have to deal with it, though. Here's what I'm doing. And this is important.

It sounds like you've got a lot of great practices that have evolved from this. I'm curious, you know, what do you know now? We're seven months, eight months into into to working this way? What do you know, now that you wish you'd known seven or eight months ago?

No, that's a good question. I think, you know, I would have a clue that would have invested in online collaboration tools. As an investor, I probably wouldn't have a 10,000 square foot boat that I'm paying around on knowing that this pandemic is coming. I think that's a good question. What would I wouldn't know now, I do think the good thing about COVID is has been that people are open to change, because their world just got rocked. Right. So for us, you know, while our sales are definitely decreased, because everybody's risk adverse, right. Nobody knows the ripple effect of the supply chain, and country trades and all these things. But I think that when we do work with companies, they're like, Wow, I just had my whole world turned upside down. I'm much more open to change. So I think it's a great time. That's why we call it you know, we're giving out free training right now. We call it our agile stimulus package. And we've trained, we went online with overtraining, we've trained almost 2500 people since COVID. Start for free, with 12 hours online training. And, you know, it's it's definitely people the questions I would get pre COVID were much more blockers are negatives, that can never happen here to Oh, my God, I never thought a pandemic pandemic would come. Maybe this agile stuff isn't so bad. Great. You know, I need to be open to change.

Let me let me just touch on that. That training. That sounds really cool. How do we get involved in that?

Yeah, so just, I can send out a link to the group afterwards. But it's two and a half hours a day. It's it's Monday through Friday, I think the next one we're doing on West Coast time. So it's one to 330. And yeah, we'll send you a link just enter Agile to and it's free. And we've been averaging about 40 people for class about 200 people showing up. And you can go to one module where all the modules based on whatever your level of knowledge is, will cover everything from design thinking to DevOps to testing.

And is it just you talking for those 12 hours? No,

we have five coaches, then we've pre recorded the videos, but we play and we do live chat, live q&a. And then if you want to, if anybody's like PMI or anything about that we actually do give out a certification

for the credits. That's cool. Any Canadians featured on those videos?

Yeah. Yeah. Was on the poker wall. If you know, everybody knows, Paul.

Excellent. So that's awesome. You went out and got some fantastic coaches for that workshop. And I can't believe you know, giving it away for free is a really great, great offer. really generous. So listen, thinking, you know, year or two or three into the future. I don't know, I don't know when it's going to be. And it depends, I guess, on who you talk to. But imagine when this this COVID, you know, is a distant memory or at least just a fact of life. And, you know, we're we're, we're I don't want to say back to normal, but we're at the point where we're engaging back in face to face conversations. What aspects of of the remote collaboration in the remote conversations do you think do you think you'd want to keep?

Yeah, I saw so that's a great question. I don't think we're ever going back to normal. I think there's a new normal, right I mean, some of our customers I have one customer, they had 42 buildings, and they've already decided to get rid of 36 of them. Okay, so, and I think, you know, a lot of people were saying that we, we hired trustworthy people, and we trust them, and empower them, we trust them to work from home. So I think that there's always now I think that I think the world has changed, I think there will always be a blend of work from home and work in the office at the at each company. So these online tools are getting huge investments in them. At the end of the day, it's all about people and communication. And I don't I don't think I you know, it's kind of scary. I don't know, think we're ever gonna go back to the the playtime, where everybody goes to work five days a week. Most companies aren't we only I only know one company in the States, I can talk about that large paint manufacturer, they're going back October 1. That's that's the only company out of all the companies I know, who are even going back and most of them are saying that some people think they're more productive worker remote. I think that my take on that is, of course, if you asked me, Do you like working with home? Yeah, it's nice. You know, I can do things I can never do. But, you know, I don't think I don't think they had a good measure on productivity before this, to say, you know, yeah, we're just as productive, I think might be the same, because there was just a lot of waste. That's my God.

If, if you're willing, could you post the link to the training in the chat? And that way people can drop off for prime minister or something, then they've got that link? Yep, I'll do that right now. Perfect time, we're actually just, we've only got a couple of questions left, but we are at 630. So if there are, if there are, if anyone does need to drop, by all means there's a feedback survey in the chat window, if you can take 30 seconds to complete that, that survey, love to get the feedback on what you liked and didn't so that we can continue to continue to think about who we get for these sessions and the format and structure that they take. But there are a couple of questions left if if folks are able to stay? Maybe before we get to those. Alex, I know you had a question. Are you able to unmute yourself and and get your question asked?

Yeah. Can you hear me? Yep. Yeah. Hi, John. Hi, everyone. So you know, I am an Agile coach in an international organization, we have multiple offices. And we I can my view, the productivity has went up. But but something that I'm noticing is that while the the global productivity went up, the local productivity is sort of here in there. And one of the biggest challenges I find it because we don't have this face to face is how do we improve a synchronous communication? So written communication, and it's been really hard to get people on board, everyone wants to have meetings, and that means meetings at 11pm. For some people, and some people in the morning, I'm wondering if you have seen that? And if there is any thoughts and like in your world around a synchronous communication, how to improve writing practices, so that people can understand each other better, without having to be synchronous all the time? Yeah,

I mean, that's one of the reasons we use workplace by Facebook, because people saw that work life balance, especially when you're distributed across the globe. And so when you go back that how are we going to have new team norms and COVID. One is a turn your video all the time, another one could be alright, every time we do have a group meeting, we're going to take some meeting minutes, and we're going to put it in workplaces in Facebook. So if there's somebody around the world that couldn't make that meeting, there's at least some talking points or, or better yet, videos, pretty easy. Why don't we just record these zoom calls or video calls and attach them in the workplace by Facebook? Just if we can't get 100% participation? So, you know, I also, you know, we're big on org design, I think one of the biggest mistakes people make when they go Agile, is they don't reorganize for for high performing teams. And so I always say, Wow, if I'm going to work with a team in India, and Brazil, and China, why don't have whole teams, and each of those locations, instead of having the skill spread across three different countries. And so, you know, I challenge people to challenge your organization, are you is your organizational structure, right? Or is it just I can't imagine not working with, with Jeff or Simon. So, you know, we're going to we're going to put up with all that challenge we have with different time zones and different cultures. So, you know, I always start with, you know, really reflecting on is that the right org design to begin with, you know, I went to I've been to a lot of countries and studied lots of cultures, and I still think that, you know, I like seeing whole Standing Teams in their own culture, whether it's India, China, Brazil, or, or London, there are US or Canada, you know, put up high standard performing teams there if you can, if you're a big enough company to do that. If you're not big enough, then you're probably gonna have to deal with being highly distributed and all the extra overhead it takes to have communication.

Alex, just just to build on John's answer, and I'm not supposed to answer questions here because I'm supposed to be asking them But there's a fantastic book that came out by Mark Kilby and Jonathan Dinah Rothman called from chaos to successful distributed agile teams worth every penny to invest in that book. It's an excellent, excellent book full of great ideas on how to deal with a multinational situation, and the same patterns that that they've observed in their time. The book is called from chaos to successfully distributed agile teams. I'll post the link at some point, as soon as I can get a second here. But John, last last couple of questions that that have come in, unless anyone else has any, is just wondering if you can talk about the amount of time people are spending in meetings with the switch from physically needing to get people in meetings, or setting up zoom calls or setting up booking meeting rooms, versus the ability just to grab people and, and, and have these these meetings virtually?

Yeah, I can only speak from our customers and what they've told us but your average customer saying that they're in meetings at least six hours a day. That's what it feels like to them. And then they have to try to get their work done, when they aren't in these meetings. And when I asked him, uh, what was that like pre COVID? They would, most of them would say maybe three to four hours a day. I think people were already meeting to death if they weren't agile. So, yeah, that's my gut. I've never done a case study or any metrics or scientific analysis around that. But when we went when I, almost every customer we talk to or go to lunch or video chat with, and we show them scope, because they're like, oh, my god, that was solve a real problem I have, which is getting out of meeting paralysis. And okay, somebody else Gabriel's use the tool? Yeah, it does feel like you're working in the same space. And I yeah, I even do things like on a Friday, I'll say I click on everybody, say, Everybody grab a beverage. Let's talk about our week, how you guys all doing? I'll pull people together. So or, Hey, let's celebrate something. And so it gives me that whole impromptu. You know, they used to have an open space that I really missed.

Awesome. If people want to find out more about you, or more about what lien dog does, or this training, I know you posted the link to the training, what's the best way for folks to get in touch with you?

john@lynda.com. That's simple.

Wonderful. Listen, this has been great. What an awesome, awesome sort of intro to tie something. And I'm just going to sort of reflect back something that I heard that it was, you know, and you started this off, John, by talking about the fact that it's individuals and interactions over processes and tools as the first as the first value. It almost sounds like what you're saying is individuals and interactions enabled by processes and tools. Yeah, if you ever heard my talks,

especially my Kanban talk, I am not a tool fan. But you know, I had to I was forced to change myself. And when this happened, I still think that, you know, I think it's a big place for physical things. And I especially when it comes to the backlog, because the challenge we have with the tools, people can instantly throw stuff in the backlog. And it's hard to wrap your mind around a 13 or 17 or 30 inch screen about how much backlog there is and I missed that. But that's not going away. So we got to adapt. So now it's a matter of how can we embrace technology to do that. We've also been playing with augmented reality. We've been doing state daily stand ups with Oculus devices. And if you just I wouldn't do that every day because your your head will explode. But if you say every Friday is Oculus stand up day, and you put on an AR headset and you're all avatars. It makes for a lot of laughs especially when people change what they look like.

That's really cool. Thanks again, John. Tom know anything to add before we wrap this up? Oh survey. If you get a minute, John's posted the survey in the chat window, if you can take you know 30 To 40 seconds to complete it. Love to get your feedback on it. John, thanks so much for this. No, Tom, back over to you too.

Well, I'm, I really enjoyed that. And, John, I'm really curious about that last point you made about using VR for those weekly sessions. It's something I've been thinking about as well. So I'll definitely follow up with you offline about that Oculus strategy that that sounds super interesting.

Awesome. And thank you all for attending. And thank you, John, for sharing your very valuable learnings with all of us. In our video recording this session will be available on our YouTube channel. So feel free to check that out and share it within your network. And you know, one of these days we will all be meeting in person again and until then, stay healthy and stay safe.

Thanks so much.


## Coach Up, Executives Living Agile

About a born American awareness. Always want to wear a breadboard. So I didn't think about how the mic was going to work though, with the breadboard. So let me try. Alright. Okay, can't reach you. I didn't test first. So there you go adaption at its best. Okay. So I spent a lot of time trying to help companies. I'm John saw, by the way from lean dog. And I spent a lot of times trying to help companies go Agile, right? And at the end of the day, I always ask Can it be? Will it really be sustainable? Right. And and I'll tell you, I don't know, I think that we're missing some as coaches. And so my latest passion has been talking about how can we actually change, change? Executive Leadership, right? So do as I say, not as I do, right? Most Agile is do not practice agile, they don't get the values, they don't get the principles, they want you to practice it, but they don't get it. Right. So they think they support it, right? Because they're saying, Hey, be transparent, do all these wonderful things. But I don't have to do that, right? I'm just gonna sit in my office and, and tell you what to do. I don't have to, I don't have to live the values, right. So they don't practice, right. And that's it. That's partly because they don't know how to write. So I'm challenging us as coaches to say, as coaches, we need to think about not just coaching our teams, because we keep focused on software delivery. But if we want this culture to be sustainable, we need to coach executives on how to do this, they aren't going to figure out how to do this. Right. So there's lots of ways we can help them do that. And I'm gonna propose a whole bunch and Patrick's gonna help me but he doesn't know. Right? Okay. So that's right to where you guys come in, right? We need to take techniques. We practice every day that work in software delivery, that just work in good organizations and good teams, and take those upper level right. As coaches. Remember, we focus on delivery teams, we need to coach up this is where I turn around is where Patrick comes up. And you helped me read my back. Right? So I should have had a mirror but that didn't work. It is yeah, use my read some of those, Patrick for me,

as an executive. I will sign the Agile Manifesto. Be transparent, radiate information. Create a big visual What the heck is a big

visual I made it up with a big room. I'll tell you about tomorrow got 25 boards against the wall. talking behind my back and

practice, create a manifest is support office. Goodness support case in limit work in progress. Speaking stories work by value practice stand ups, retrospectives and escalating robots, lead by example, eliminate waste, eliminate waste, promote the XP values. I have signed the John off stole.

Thank you. So the whole point is the definition of Done means when we start teaching executives how to practice the same things. It makes us successful all the way up, building up visibility, so they can see how they manage financials, assets, people, competencies, procurement, everything, right? We need to teach them out of high art techniques that work on teams, all the way of how they think of the world so that they can radiate what they do, they can speak in stories and we can then click with them and create a sustainable culture. So that's what I'm talking about.


## Leading Lean - 2016 COHAA The Path to Agility Conference

Alright, let's get started. So, Greg bet me I couldn't do this whole conference talk in a full face helmet. So it's worth a beer. So you're gonna have to suffer through it. So they're actually this is a Rick Mears helmet for time IndyCar champion, so I got to borrow it, so they take care of it. So thanks for coming to the talk a little bit about me. So I actually, I'm from Pittsburgh, I went to Ohio State computer science econ degree. I worked up in Cleveland for years. I live in Cleveland now. And I spent the first few years of their building agile teams eventually started getting them all my friends down here in Columbus nationwide, was asked to kind of work with Srini Shireen here to help lead the transformation nationwide. And I spent the last eight years making a career out of it and starting lean. So we've written a book, remote, we're in a book, you can download our agile discussion guide, there's about 60 different practices we teach. So for us, it's not just about Scrum, it's not just about Lean, it's about psychology, sociology, creating high performing organizations, anything we can do to improve flow and improve the team. So feel free to download, it's free. And it's more of a discussion point, all the talking points when we talk about all these different topics, what we cover what we do at lean dawg, we do this, we help companies go Agile and Lean. And then we also have a design build studio. So we are designed to build products up in Cleveland, on our boat. This is talking we talk to you about today is not about how to build high performing software teams. It's how to build a high performing lean organization. So if you're here to hear about, you have your management software team, you want to make them better. This is different. This is more about how you take a bunch of leaders that are on a mission and how to adopt Lean thinking to go faster. And so the topic is this talk is kind of speeding lean, one of the things we do to try to improve a high performing organization at the leadership team level, okay? We'll start off here by watching.

Okay, so buy Rolex. Actually, so the point of that video is that, you know, when you think about speed and lean, it's easier to understand Lean thinking, when it comes by the physical things, right. So whether it's manufacturing, whether you're managing inventory, you can see ways you can see flow, and you can kind of understand where the handoffs are happening, and where the delay, and where even the over commitment over processing all the forms of waste. So our challenge is, how do we actually apply and lean into running a high performing organization, not running the necessary software teams, but again, running, running high performing teams, so I'm not going to preach you guys the principles of Lean, there's enough lean books out there. But these are the principles and then there's the forms of waste. So this talks structured in three parts. First, we're gonna talk about how do we create people systems? Okay, how do we create a continuous improvement environment? And how do we continually improve our standard of work? And how do we do that in the world, it's not physical at all. And you can't see, you know, Jack on a car, and you can't see the inventory. So you have to really talk, how do you manage flow? And how do you manage improving your organization? So let's first talk about the left point there, the high performing teams. So the first key to me is creating a environment. We work for a lot of corporations, we help a lot of corporate cultures try to do this thing. When I started lean dog. Eight years ago, I could do anything I wanted, because I was a startup with no money. And so I could just build whatever I felt like building. So one things I learned when I was here, and I was working at nationwide and we work with people in innovation is you have to think big. So the bigger you can stretch people's minds. They're going to come back to someone who's comfortable. So don't set a goal that you want him to get to. So one way beyond and stretch them to it. So we're looking for Office. We found it at 92 steamship. Okay. So 22 years older than Titanic. As soon as you walk in this boat, you're like this is pretty risky. First of all, because it's old. But second of all, it's it's big and it's been refactored it used to be a restaurant. So it's 10,000 square foot and it was sitting there abandoned for two years and starting a company a down economy, things were cheaper. So I said, Hey, how about I move in and taste the rats off? Turn the lights on? And maybe, maybe, eventually, we can buy it and we did. So what's cool about this again, as soon as people walk on are like, Okay, you mean you have a boat floating like eerie the freezes in the ice in the winter? Like that's pretty weird. And, and so we just want them to think okay, yeah, you can do anything if you open up your mind to you can just go as big as wild as you want. So if you're a Cleveland, come see us there's I'll give you free parking for the Rock Hall, science, Senator browns, wherever you wanna do a lot. I'll just show you around. So the first part about creating your space was letting your team design your space. A lot of people call us up and they say, can you come in and help us to create this open, agile environment? And we could, you know, the leaders, we could certainly do that we can take a budget, and we can buy, we can go furniture, shopping, and pick out all the cool tables, and all the cool things. But ultimately, we're trying to do is hire creative people, creative people that are makers, creative people like to build things, creative. People like to solve things. So almost every creative person I know, and probably everybody in this room has a passion or hobby. There's something about them that ticks right. So in this room, this is the front of our boat. We painted a kraken on the walls. Why? Because I have four really awesome user centered design people, and I can't draw a damn thing. And they can't. And I said, Why don't you guys design something that makes a space in the front of the room? Kind of so you know, I don't know about a cracking because that's kind of like a launch to the grabs a ship and sinks it but I went with it, right? Because it doesn't matter. Because every time I look at that wall, I think about Nicole and I think about Apollo and I think about will and those are the designers that got together and they they now own it. So when somebody comes to their house, they're showing off their work. They're saying, Yeah, we actually painted that we did that, and our leader support and doing that. So if you come to the boat, you'll see stuff everywhere. Somebody gave us an old boat. We had people that were craftsmen and woodworking. We say hey, what can we do with this little boat? Let's turn it into a table. Let's refactor it, reuse it now as part of Bill, Bill Bill refactor that. It took how long Greg months and months and months, but it doesn't matter. Right? Bill did it. And even just last week, he's retired, he still walks in, he shows off that boat, right. And he helped create that he helped build perfect environment. So let your people build. We came across a crazy guitar, because we got the rock on these guitars up there and somebody so I got this car and have no idea how it fits in with the boat, boat theme, but we wanted it so we hanging upside down right? So we like looking at weird things. Things that provoke thought things that make you think outside of the box. So let your people that give him a budget, trust him. They're adults, they can design their own house, they can certainly design our work environment, right? Let them change it up, let them be creative. Let them show off their space. Right? feeling comfortable at your second home is just as important as feeling comfortable with home, right? Let these people show off and let them do it. So I hate it when people give us a budget and say we're just gonna, we're gonna make all the decisions for the team and dammit, they better like our open workspace. Right? It doesn't make sense. They're adults treat them like adults. Okay, give them some budget and let him go. Clearly, we were all about the open workspaces and collaboration, we have it everywhere. We have no offices, all over leadership to open the second floor of the boats where he managed lean dog, I'll show you a bit more about how we do that in a minute. The other thing we value is T shaped people. So we really value diversity. And when I say diversity, I believe going Agile and Lean is kind of like going to it's like when you go back to Agile lean, you're going back to adult kindergarten, right? We all sit in an open workspace, we put our homework up on the wall. Everybody knows who the better reader is. Right? We have show Intel's we show up to work on time we leave on time. Right? We have recess, okay? And we have this continual learning culture. When I was in kindergarten, I didn't know what Trini wanted to be, or Greg wanted to be or anybody else. We're just all there to learn, right? We just created that environment. So one of the best things we do at lean dog. Since we're passionate on building things, we didn't hire just computer science engineers, we hired mechanical and electrical engineers. Why? Because it's all engineering. They're all makers, right? And just gives us that diversity to learn, hey, just because I got a degree from Ohio State and computer science doesn't mean I only want to write code, I'd love to be able to design things and make them useful and usable. I'd also like to learn a lot about electrical and mechanical, right as well, because now I can see software design, make physical design. And now this world of IoT is taken off. And so it was kind of unleashed just on raw talent that we didn't even know we had because we create things for makers. The other thing we don't like to see in the workspace is games, okay? Most of us can afford a Sony a Wii or whatever video game we want. We buy 3d printers, we buy laser printers, we buy Lay's, we buy sauce, right, we buy things that let people create. So when I'm not coding, I'm not solving that problem. Maybe I can go to learn another craft and somebody else in the room and learn how to do something else. So we we bought the first couple 3d printers because they were fun. And now everybody's making with them. And we solve problems every day. I think we had a part on the doorknob go the other day and somebody say up, print that and fix it right. So you never know that from facilities to producing products for our customers, giving people access to things that make with beyond the sciences, right gives them a continual learning path that they normally wouldn't get up outside of your work. So 3d printers are 2500 bucks, buy one usually takes a team of 10 people to keep them around anyways. So it's there's a continual learning curve there but you'll be surprised at the pride they take and, and knowing that by getting 3d printers in our space, we then started running maker nights and now we give back to kids. So we have we teach kids how to do programmable Valentine led book Valentine's gift cards. We do sumo bot wrestling we took a teddy bear we cut a hole in the back of the chip in it, put a gear in its arm run Android app, the tweet at it the way the kids. So now we're actually giving back to the community by teaching how do we combine three engineering disciplines Plus user centered design, right? And so those are skills that I'd never expect Actually certainly in dog that our people would take a passion and do it just because we gave them great maker type stuff. So adult recess we encourage it but it's adult. We have a fitness center over at the airport next door where we're docked. We have a whole bunch of schedules from yoga time to bike riding a cycling that running. We have kickball league summer leagues, we have kayaking leagues. Two years ago, we actually had summer interns that would take our fishing boat, and they would clean the boat in the morning. We take clients out in the morning fishing, they fillet the fish for lunch, and then we serve lunch for customers. So we encourage people to get out and have fun. We treat them like adults. We give them toys. We never had an issue. We don't have waivers. Yeah, don't tell my insurance company. But we don't because we hire responsible people, people that we can trust and we trust them. Right. And we've never had an issue because people don't abuse it. You surround yourself by highly talented people. You really don't have these issues. It's a culture it's a community. People don't abuse. kayaks, paddle boards we provide healthy lunches for people.

In the winter, we even have an ice rink glatt not this year because it was too warm. But last year it froze and we made an ice rink we pump the water up we made a home Boney Zamboni thing and we clean the ice we have ice fishing tents with little gas fire pits in them and we go out we write code and and ice fishing tents. So we expand out onto the ice. We are right next to a world war two submarine here and the Coast Guard's right here. So it's pretty every time they want to do a news article on us like, should you really go out on Lake Erie ice we we watch the Coast Guard train for hours and hours and hours and cold water rescue right next to us. So we feel pretty comfortable. But but they they sometimes don't they can sometimes come over and they get worried too. So. So as I mentioned the key dog kindergarten creating a great high performing team as we hire trustworthy people, and we trust them. Okay, I think most of the waste that we see we go into companies because of trust. Right? We have papers, we have gates, we have signatures, we have sign off with handoffs, why because our trust was violated once and I never want to get burned again. So I'm gonna put rules in place. Every rule slows down the system. Okay, so we like to start with no rules, since you only add a rule if you absolutely need to add a rule, okay. And you can't do that if your culture doesn't believe in this. Okay, if I have a trust issue with something, I have to have the courage to bring it up and talk about it. Right? I can't say Oh, yeah. You know what? I don't want to confront Greg. So we're just gonna write a rule. So Greg, yeah. Because that Greg did that one thing. Maybe Greg didn't even realize he did it. But I have to have the courage, communication, feedback and respect to say, hey, we don't want you don't want us to create the Greg rule to you, right. And so we basically talked about that, let's not let it happen. Again, let's make sure we don't have it. But let's not penalize the whole flow of the system. And our whole trust factor, because one person, so yeah, we have a full bar. We we did retrospectives on our work environment all the time, the only rule we had around our bar, which is not the one that people think is if you have a drink, you have to ring a bell. And why because in a retrospective if you had a drink, and you didn't tell everybody else who was rude, right. And so it was a rude rude to spill. And we even have a rule on the bell here that if you actually don't ring the bell, first you have to bring in a fruit tray for the entire team. And that was to balance out the drinking factor. We felt we bring something unhealthy. And so again, we've never had an issue, we run six or eight meetups a week at a boat with the public still never had an issue with the Lean loggers. There were patrols were watching the boat and were there. People don't abuse it, you know, we move them out of there we do or where you have to do. And it's just it really isn't hard because we're all adults. And we just operate that way. So this is the 3d printing I was telling you about. Yeah, we used this 3d printer to make that 3d printer. Right now we're doing plasma cutters, and we got all kinds of toys and it looks like chaos. But it's like geek chaos, right? There's like stuff everywhere parts, supplies, electrical stuff. You never know what they're going to create next. That other day, I was walking by the refrigerator in the kitchen and I got squirted with water from the fridge. Because they actually figured out how to hack the fridge and make the fridge smart. Right? So they could actually say Amazon echo command support the fridge and all of a sudden in the kitchen, the water would squirt out of the fridge. So it creates this fun environment like what's the challenge? What can we what can we use technology to automate everything in your environment, they try to automate. And then you find out about all these latent skills, which is another form of waste, right? And we can now uncover those latent skills. Now we can leverage them. So amplify learning. So we host a lot of events we bring it in, this is the making the lake this is for kids, we do this twice a month. These ones the Ruby, the Java, the Python, lean, they're even on here. We host a lot of meetings, we pay a lot of money to host those meetings, because I want to bring learning to the people. So we're there on their break. If they're learning by hacking on something, or they're attending one of these events after work. It's just it's just really easy to do and it gives us a sense of pride in the community that we're giving back to community and teaching. A part of our core values giving back we've been Cleveland give camp seven years in a row. We've helped 20 over 20 charities here for seven years. Um, we host concerts and events on the boat. Why? Because again, a lot of people in it are skilled craftsmen. Either they, they're into music, they're into woodworking, they're into cars, or into making something else besides us solving software problems. And so, because of that, you know, a lot of we're in the music. So we have, we had requests for pop up concerts to happen on the boat. And now we have social time. So if we want to hang out after the work and do something social, with no pressures, no tie to technology at all, we just hang out for music. We also get used to having Music Mondays, where we just invite all the geeks in town, regardless just to come and jam on the boat and play. In the summer, we do outdoor concerts on the boat. So I don't know how your environments look. But stretch your mind, try to think big try to do extreme things, trust people tell people you're gonna put rules in unless, unless we broke break trust, like 10 times. And usually it's not, it's gonna be one or two people that just don't get it. So you have to have the courage as a leader to say, Hey, listen, we don't want to our first resistant is not to put a rule in place. That's our first course of action or second course of action, or third, we're putting rules against it. There's no other way we can operate. And then you really have to look at the people system first. Any questions about that? I talk fast. So. Not too quiet. Too dark. Okay. All right. Now let's talk about standard work. So how many people are familiar with the term see the hole in Lean? Right? So this is a two. So we're talking about that. We're talking about how do we see the whole system and that's the hardest thing to lead a team is I hire everybody on my team to manage something, they all have a certain scope of responsibilities, they all have something to watch, they have some system, some standard to keep an eye on whether it's finance, legal, HR sales, you know, software delivery, whatever it is, they all have a certain span of control. And because I'm hiring leaders, they can all create infinite amounts of work, right? So typically, when we go in any organization, you have various degrees of understanding this system. If you've been there 10 years, you probably understand a lot better how things work, how does finance work? How's legal legal work? How's HR, you know, what are the standards for how we actually work in our culture? The problem is, is that it's really easy for us to think that we just agree on this, like we know what the state is. So we often just head nod, right? Yeah, so I'm glad we all agree. But soon as we start making things physical, okay, and put them up on the board and making paper, we can see the differences. And now that we have an explicit model, we can converge right. So this is information radiators, Alastair Coburn from Crystal, right, but it works in lean to, right, it's part of the the key concept of lean and Kanban is make your work visual, so you can understand it. So once we once we now to get there, and now we can create a shared understanding. So this is probably we go crazy on this anybody's ever worked with Lean dog, and we help them to get we go crazy with information radiators, because we just see that they work. Even if you're off by a little bit, whatever countermeasure or option you want to play next to get better as a team can be different if you're just a hair off. So whether it's Microsoft executives, or screenies, or Dave's, or whomever, if we don't, if we aren't exactly on the same page, we can all agree the next thing can do could be just slightly different. That's waste. Okay, because we can see the picture perfectly clear, then we could probably because we're probably all pretty smart people. That's probably how we got to where we were at, we could probably then better off agree on what the best course of action is in reduce waste. So let me show you how this works. Yes, we do have a couple of technology radiators. These are burndown charts and things like that. So in our studio, because we have many customers that we're building for, and they're remote, we do have TVs, but for the most part, that's probably the only digital thing you'll see on the boat. As far as information, radio, everything else we do is physical. These are our team norms. So our team wrote these Apalis is in the other room here with another speaker. And this is this is what the team agreed to right. Everybody agreed that this is a really big deal. It's a really big deal that we're on the same page so we can make a separate action. So anytime we start to go away from using information radiators, we kind of ask ourselves, what are we going to do to uphold our values until this needs to change? It doesn't change. It will do retrospectives. We'll change it if we need to. But the team wrote this I didn't ask him to do it. We talked about the value information Raiders, I actually brought in my own outside lien coach because it's just like why we work to get an outside person to say what your work so we did that. And that when they finally got it. They're like okay, we all get why lean systems work, and why information radiators are a big deal. It's kind of the start of everything when you're going lean. So if you come to the boat, you'll see this is our marketing and well got things up here like how we we don't market very well we just speak at conferences. So we're trying to learn how to do this. After seven years, we're trying to say how do we enter a market? So you have different ways we market you have conversion rates, you have some metrics. This is our speaking conference calendar because that's what we mostly do. But now we have a better rate here on how much how much speaking are we doing versus how much are we doing any online marketing, we're just starting to under under understand this space, it was something we just didn't. I always say we were geeks without a marketing plan, we had no plan, right, we just share what we know. And we hope we wouldn't work. We have a finance wall, become the boat, you can see how much money we have in a bank account. You can see how much each customer that we work for owes us, which is really convenient when they're happy hour and a owe you money.

And you kind of calves in school have a beer over here. And it's check out this wall. But we don't work cash business. If we don't if we don't bring in cash. We don't we have beer mugs here indicating how well we're doing. We're performance. If you want to spend something, you write it on a post it note, you stick it on the spending wall, anybody in the company, we don't have budgets, okay, we're adults. Okay? We all know that upstairs, we each have a different different responsibility. Somebody better make sure we have business to like customer delight and people delight. So if you want to spend money you put up on the wall, hey, I wanted to buy this. After our stand up usually, once a week, we say hey, we're having a spending meeting. And we have three stand ups at the boat, one for the leadership team, one for the boat. And then there's another Studio One. And so basically, we announced during that stand up, hey, today's spending day. So if you want to spend money, you come up and you stand in front of two or three of us leadership team. And you state your case, here's what I want to spend money for. Here's what I want to do it like okay, well, let's check out how are the financials looking, and then you can't see it. But our goals are over here. Like kind of what we're chasing. So we're like, good, does that line up to our goals? You know, does that make sense? And we just talked about it. Often the person, we have to go back and do a bit more research or digging, and we have to understand it better. But it's just this transparency moment to say, giving out money and spending money are the two most political things you do. Right? It's the most complicated thing you do, because money affects everybody. So denying somebody money, or not giving somebody compensation and rewards are very sensitive topics. So we want to make that as transparent as we can. Because it's really a complicated problem for us to solve. And they think the person at the top just can see everything. Like I can't just see the whole system and know where they actually approve your spending requests or years or years or how many stacking up. It's just not that simple. So by saying we often want by just saying the notion, Hey, today is spending meeting, we're gonna have one Thursday after standups. There's also three more people who all have something that want to spend money on. And so they'll bring it up rather than wait. So now we can look at the whole system. It's okay, I thought just you know, I thought just Greg was asking for money, but there's actually eight of you. Okay, that's different. We need to talk about that. And when you talk about the highest value spin, so again, hard to do. More finance, wall stuff. Sales wall, this, oops, that's our sales funnel. So our sales funnel? Yeah, we put it in a tool called pipe drive. But we still make it physical, while we make it visible, because we want to measure Wait, I want to know, you know, how long do I give somebody a statement of work to how long did they sign it we tied up in the MSA process legal process? Because getting things through our system is not everybody's job. It's like what can I do to help you get sales through the funnel? If it's blocked, if there's a blocker there, maybe there's something I can do to help you. Or last issue that was MSA is we have somebody new, known legal and we're really over analyzing MSA is to the nth degree. And finally, why don't we just hire somebody that has some legal background and understands risk, legal risk better than we understand software risk? So we finally realized that they were having a huge delays. And for a really small fee, we could actually really believe aid that constraint we're losing deals because we couldn't meet our customers needs because somebody was new with the legal process, it was one little step. But you could spend eight hours going to contract or 30 minutes, right? It's really up to you. And so based on the engagement, we've sized, how much risk do we want to absorb? Right? If a small quick engagement, maybe we don't analyze the contract. But if we binding for the next five years? And may we better look at this risk a little bit harder, or have the right honest conversations with the customers. Account Management wall. Can't really see it here. But we managed to come back to that in a minute. But these are all of our customers for coaching on one side of the wall and over studio customers. So every week we stand in front of there, how do we know our customers are happy? How are we doing? And it's not just me saying, Hey, I went and visited my customer and they love us. Right? How are we actually going to really validate that we're providing customer delight, are we actually keeping an eye on on that ball and making sure we're doing it, we have these physically cut on boards. So we took a bandsaw we took those trifold boards, we cut them up, we glued magnets on them, because we found that we could then shift customer priorities right a lot quicker on the whiteboard. Another reason why we don't use tools, if I were to put this in a tool, I would have to wait for the software developer to add a feature so that I could do that. Right, versus just making a paper and moving it. And so we kind of create this if you could origami and crafts if you're going to be in kindergarten. Alright. So this is a big visual room. This is an example down here I can speak around Cardinal people in the room. Anyway. So Cardinal Health or few center, went and did a big visual room. We started with their vision, their mission, their purpose, their value stream map, how they're structured today, how they could be structured in the future for more flow. We created a whole ton of walls and this was a new team really high powered team right? You know, create an innovation center and throw your slouches in there, right? So you throw all these higher energy people and say go be innovative and go Agile and Go Lean and do this thing. Well, they all again, have various degrees of knowledge, Gary's degrees of influence various degrees of, of responsibility. So the first thing we agreed we need to do is start getting on the same page. So we started visualizing everything they worked on product portfolios, you know, they were a new organization, but they inherited about 25 Different software assets. Right? They had, this is our backlog. So this is us, the team agreeing on what walls are we going to build, and who's going to build them with us, because I don't know anything about your company. So if you can explain it to me and make it provision on the wall, and I can understand it, I'm the new guy, then that means I'm probably the lowest denominator, and everybody can probably read it, right? Whether I'm interviewing somebody, or anybody, I want them to have that clarity about who we are. And what we're doing. These are the three delights we manage. So we have customer walls, people walls in business walls. So we have to balance these things are people that work for Lean dog have to be happy, right? It has to make business sense, right? We have to make a living, right, and our customers have to be delight. So we'll then take these delights, and map them to the walls. And almost every organization, when we go in, and we first do this, two out of three of these would be really good, and one's gonna be neglected. That's why we create this wall, right? To say, hey, how do we really know that we're managing customer delight? You know, how are we 100% certain that we're doing that, because we get so busy, that it's really easy to focus on ourselves, to focus on the business and the people side and lose and sometimes lose sight of the customer. And if they aren't happy, then these don't exist. So we really have to keep that balance together. This is an example of a customer company alignment wall that somebody in here might think looks familiar. We have an ideation wall. This was how do we do innovation. So we had at the time, it was called shots on goal. Now I think they climb mountains or something. But But nonetheless, you know, we had inherited all these application assets. We were the innovation center, but we didn't have any capacity to innovate. And so we had to say, how do we actually create a new PMO flow that lets us test hypothesis and go more lean startup on this thing? Right? How do we how do we do that? And how we and if we're going to do that innovation way? How do we do it more like a shark tank way where you're in a large company, and everybody throws some funding in the build this beautiful thing. That means everybody wants capacity. But we aren't playing the capacity game anymore. We're playing on the highest value thing. What's the highest value shot on goal we can take? Right? And that's that's the play that you run, right? writ large, largest politically what people want to do. So we often have to go and create different demand funnels that aren't just run the business demand funnels verse, I want to take, I want to take some risk and do some startup stuff. So a lot of PMO work goes into these rooms. We have current product portfolios, we have new products, are these products displacing these products, what's the health of this product is going up is going down? It's going flat? How do we measure whether it's healthy? Are we good? Are we willing to have the guts to kill off a product so that we can build more capacity to do innovation? Right? So again, a lot of PMO work trying to understand how does the value flow in your organization? And when you first do this, and you put it up? These are the aha moments you have like, well, I just don't have enough. I want more of this. And I don't have to agree. Okay, if we all agree, and we only have so much capacity, then what are we not going to do to create capacity to do more of this? Right. And that's often has to sit at the CIO CEO level, making sure that we actually take these chances that we're continually innovating. Large companies can't grow growth by innovation, it's kind of hard, right? Because you kind of acquire a culture that squash a culture, product goes away. So we really have to figure out we can innovate from within more mapping. We have lots of key performance indicators. Every wall has some elements who owns the wall. How often who participates? When, how often do we look at the wall, almost every meeting we have is in front of a wall. It's not in a meeting room. There's nothing to hide, everybody. Everybody who works for us can see us standing in front of these walls, having meetings and trying to make decision and they might have insight. Right, so we don't hide any of this from them. And we don't lock it up and share points and wikis and tools and, and planning sessions. We just do it all in front of everybody all the time. Okay, that's probably enough on walls. Any questions about that? The visual room, tons of paper?

Yeah, so the question is, if it's all physical, what do you do when people aren't co located? So first, anytime you're distributed, there's going to be waste, okay? It's like a long distance relationship. It's takes me forever to build up trust takes a second to tear it down. Right? So nothing's ever going to replace this at first, you have to say, Are we structured? Do we recognize that if we all agree on that principle, then are we truly organized the most optimal way that we can so that we, we aren't as distributive one I might really like work with Srini. But he lives in California, and that's in we're in different time zones. So that may not happen, right? So recognize that's a constraint we have to overcome. It's only going to take work and trust. So I have to say, Okay, let me manage the exception. Not that so often what happens we tune our systems to the minority problem and So we want to optimize the whole. So we want to say 90% of people were on the boat, Sweeney's remote, how can we make sure you happy without dragging down the boat? That doesn't mean that the rest of the people have to shove something to tool to make Srini happy? I mean, it's, I have to have an honest conversation with saying, what information do you really need, and what's the best way we can do this. And when we played with all kinds of stuff, from video to taking photos to call somebody up at the end of the day, or, you know, sometimes it's cheaper to get on a plane, right, it's a once a month, we're gonna, we're gonna, we know, we're gonna start off the month really in sync, because I'm going to be like this with you. And then we're going to be working in this big visual room, we're going to take pictures and do the best we can to relate to you, maybe we'll create some dashboards and some PowerPoints, but for the most part, it's never going to replace being here. So once a month, we got to hook up into space and walk the room, right and get there. So big companies distributed just because they're big, if you're three stories away from somebody, you're distributed, so it's always a challenge. It's just you have to recognize recognize that it's hard. And once people work this way, you also find out that people don't necessarily, once you once you get on the same page with your system, you change it with intention. Okay? It's like just getting on the same page is tremendous. Right, you can now start seeing flows and handoffs. So the amount of change that you incur, is not as great as you would think it's an aha moment of understanding what the whole system looks like. And now saying, Okay, what incremental change are we going to try to make to the system? What parts are we going to try to so a lot of we are ceremonies. So we do we do two week sprints, right? During our sprints, we do a show until this, this wall that well that well that well, we then create a backlog of what things we need to change in our system. And then we got to change them. So at that point, I can go upstream and say, Hey, these are the five things we're going to change. It's not like we're changing the 1000. And you're that out of sync, right. And so you have to work hard at it, but it can, it can be done. A lot of people see all the paper and they get freaked out thinking that it's continually changing. Once we get the same lens, it kinda, it should change with like I said, with intention, if changes unexpectedly, that's when you retrospect and say, Whoa, what happened here? What caused the system to change? We lost flow up this it and now we're getting flown out here. So yes.

So you mentioned all the physical stuff, that's something that's been kind of a debate and in our company, so why does it have to be so physical with like, all the electronic boards that are accessible tools? Why is there really that body works?

So the question is, why does it have to be physical? Is it really worth about the values in the conversation? Okay, it's just like writing a story card, the value is having a conversation about what reality is, and saying, Trina, do you agree, Greg, do you agree? Is this the truth? This is truth. Now we can agree on the next countermeasure option, or card that we're going to play. And so it's a conversation where the value comes out. And the reason paper works is because it's cheap, Mike, I can change that wall any way I want. I can throw it up, I can rip it off. If I miss a meeting, and these guys are hanging out and I'm like, Oh, wow, okay, they got that wrong, I can write a post it note and stick it up there. I don't have to go dive into tool to find the mistake. Even everybody on the company can validate the wall. So if I go in and say I'm doing a practice level adoption wall, and you know, I can't read in your name. So dark in here, Mike says, Hey, we you know, our level, we do test driven development all the time. And there's a big smiley face up there by TDD for your team. And then Greg walks by and says, That's BS. You know, I paired with him last week, we don't do that. So what happens? It's like kindergarten homework gets tricky. If you have to go into a system and have to go in a system and then tweak that and say, Mike, you're wrong, right? There's this, it's hard, people just won't do it, they'll just avoid the conflict, rather than saying our duty is to always have the truth on the wall. First, go update the tool. If you put stuff in a tool, any good leader, if I if I have stuff in a tool, and I'm going in front of my board, what am I going to do? Hey, is this right? Is this right? Is this right? Did you update your data? I'm gonna go beat on everybody to ensure that they got the data right in the tool, because I don't want to look like an idiot saying, I don't know what's going on. Right? You're going to double check it anyways. You're always going to validate the tool before you make a critical or key decision anyways. So just make it physical and make even when we interview people, first thing they do, they come in, they walk the walls, okay, here's who we are. Here's what we do. Here's our products. Here's our sales funnel, here's their applications. Here's who we're trying to make happy. Here's how happy our business is. We're actually talking taking them through and explain them our culture in our systems, and how people work. And at the end that walk on the wall, I hope they say Well, here's how I can help. Right? Here's how my skills fit into this. And I've worked with this customer and I can do this, right, so we're actually testing them as well to see if they can see the whole system. When I put it in tools. There's no way to connect those dots. And mind you you'll never have enough walls. So we only use the walls for the biggest problems. The most complicated things we need to solve deserve a wall. Every Friday after after standup. We do two things. First, we put on polka music. And because everybody hates polka music, sorry if there's anybody that likes it, but but when we clean we clean for 15 minutes. Why? Because it's our house. We built our house, we wanted to be clean. When go away from the weekend. We want to come back on Monday. The second thing we do is we clean off the walls. We go and say okay, well what was this wall over here for Oh, because you know we're brainstorming on this solution and we came up with it. Okay, maybe now we can make this a little prettier, make it take up this much space. and save that precious wall space to put our minds on. It's hard, but you have to try once you try it and you get that big room going. That's why we believe in the big room. If you can get to see how things connect in the system and see the whole system, yes.

checks that are visible, though. I still like that's kind of what I'm talking about some more of the visible, electronic.

We'll do some of that. We'll roll some things up in a PowerPoint like we have a company meeting once a month on a Friday. And yeah, I'm because I have people dialing in, I will summarize some things in a PowerPoint. But oftentimes, it's just pictures of the walls. And we're just telling you the highlights of the wall, you can't even read it. We're like, Hey, these are three cool things about this wall, this will change. But yeah, you're right. I mean, the value, somebody takes a break. And I got I got a developer, a designer downstairs and they take a break, and they come up because we get the beer, right? And they come upstairs and they're like, Hey, what's going on over here, and they'll stand there, and they'll just absorb the walls. And now they're having good questions with you that you wouldn't wouldn't had the opportunity. So that whole walk that you know, leadership by walking around, well, everybody can walk, why did Can't they walk up there and see how we're leading?

Just the support, answered after the last few questions. The first question around, why should it be physical? I think if you've got to co locate a team, physical is significantly better. Because John and I have been working together for many, many years. Wild Things is like the haptic response of me riding a cart and going up there and putting up the actually does mean something because the sense of accountability for the person was very different than somebody else who right and breaks it up in an electronic format. And it's out there is a competition, picking it up and moving it into that next step is important. So again, people are haptic learners, most people learn by experience or having that is important when you've got people who are co located back to the people, what teams are not co located using tools, actually does help with what John talked about is real, like we've done multiple times back and forth on the right way. But using tools does help. But the key to remember is back to it this is one of the cool things I like to get done is always thinking about the mean and waste, right. So when you go electronic, you gotta cut this, think about what waste is. And so if I'm using the electronic, whether you're using Trello, whatever it is, if that electronic board is your system of record for what you're doing, then it's not wasted. It's because you can always put these cards into more than Lego you run your standup based on the electronic board, and you do everything that you started when you missed the happy component of it, that's you deal with that, it becomes a problem when it becomes like one of these things where in order to collaborate with somebody else I've done update that electronic, a secondary system where my primary data is stored, stored somewhere else, and I got converted into cards and that it's not working. It's a complete waste.

And we'll pay administrative people to do that work. Right we'll bring in interns will say hey, listen, just gotta keep this thing in sync, sync if it's that important. The other thing too is I keep one of the one of the biggest ways is late and skills. And when you start making things physical, like we had a Melissa she's probably our newest hire, she came from with a business background. She's helped with recruiting and people systems. And all sudden I thought she was like just amazing artists like she was she takes notes on a talk, she doesn't like taking notes like I do. She like draws pictures, and makes things a story. And like, wow, you could be a designer, like I saw a skill come out and her then now there's a crib and now I say Hey, make these walls pretty, make them readable. And so all of a sudden everybody can improve the system. However they can improve it. So with her with her artistic skills, I had no idea that she had now she's improving the system. And it's quite often even, you know, by them coming to me is like, hey, maybe there's a better way for us to organize this wall by system and they come up with these creative solutions to do it. It's just fun. Making things physical. It's fun when we do things software is all day long. Creating physical things on the wall. It's delightful. I don't see any other way. Good. Any more questions? Here, why don't we get on time. Okay, let's talk now a little bit more about Standard Work pair management. So we pair we don't just pair it the developer level that he's or send his line to team level we pair when we manage. Okay, writing an email is almost like writing code. Okay, if I'm writing a really important email to you, I'm kind of like, Hey, Greg, is this clear? Is this concise? And we're trying to solve a problem trying to influence somebody or get something done. So writing that email, I could take a week and do it. I could take two hours I could take 10 minutes. When we pair we do just enough, right? And so one of the biggest you know, one of the biggest things we're creating our own backlog in demand. We can work forever on something we can refactor reanalyze finally Gregor say dammit just go talk to right. Just stop. This is pick up the phone. We started doing an experiment we actually do voice recordings replies to emails now, because writing has no inflection. And the biggest reason we lose trust is I write one sentence bad and you think I'm pissed off, right? So some like the tone, or caps or exclamation point instead of a period, right? One little thing that tries to show emotion inflection, because we so damaging, that voicemail is very, a very dangerous thing. So we actually try to avoid and I'll show you, I'll show you the extreme lengths, we go to avoid emails, which is kind of hard. So again, you get by pairing, you kind of do just enough, you make less mistakes. And it keeps us honest. So if I'm working with Greg and I'm working with, he's like, What, don't forget, we got to get this statement of work out, or we got to call shimmy, we got to do this, right, he'll make sure that I'm working on on the easiest order, which is really easy to do, especially in the morning, we don't have your coffee, right, versus Hey, I'm gonna tackle my hardest problem that day first, and work on the highest value thing first, right? Even if it's not the hardest problem. So it keeps us honest, and what we're working on saying, okay, is this really what we should be spending time on right now. So we'll ping pong pair, Greg and I do a lot except his driving, and we'll go there. Alright, we do improvement heights, we do a lot of outdoor activities. A three strategy management, I won't go too much in that either. So let's talk about how you manage your backlog. So the biggest challenge we have as leaders is your backlog is infinite. So how do you guys manage it? Right? Everybody here probably has a slightly different personal time management system. Okay. One of things we had to agree as a leadership team, if we're going to actually problem hydraform team, we need to work the same way. This is no different when we teach our Scrum teams. Right. We have certain cadences we're going to ceremonies right story cards, right acceptance criteria, right test. First, we're going to we define all the standard work around application delivery. But as leaders, what are we going to do to manage our backlog, we don't have a clear product owner, we are the product owner. And we can create a lot of product, right? And whatever it may be. So you have emails, you have voicemails, you have LinkedIn, you have text, you have all these things that you have to process and forgot what to work on next, right? So it's kind of overwhelming. So this is how we do it. Every morning, we have a leadership stand. And this is not perfect. Believe me. This is the hardest thing I've ever tried to do in my career. So if anybody here can discover a better way, please share it with me. We have a couple of companies trying to do this with us was really hard. So this is our daily stand up. So this is my leadership team. This is Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, all we do in the mornings, we say what are the top three things that we want to get done today? Just three, okay. And the goal is to stand up and say, Do I need any help with anything? Hey, Greg, can you bear with me on this? This proposal? Can you bear with me on this customer visit whatever it is? When are we traveling? So we try to we try to travel Mondays and Fridays or be on the boat Mondays and Fridays midweek we're up. We're managing customer late and people too late. That's that's the pattern we're on right now. We try to get to inbox zero. So how many people read the book Getting Things Done GTD? Right. Okay, good. So right, you do defer delegate or delete, right. So when something comes in your purview, you can either do it and get it done. Right? If it's quick, right? You can defer it like, Oh, crap, I don't want to write that email, right there. Delegate it like, Greg, can you go to this meeting for me? Or delete it? Right? This is noise, I'm not going to process it. It's wasted inventory. Let me just get out of here. Use your down thumb button a lot, right, and get rid of a lot of junk that just comes in. Everything that comes in there is irrelevant to you delivering value, all that junk mail that takes you away from your train of thought just for a second just to process it, even if it's just like, oh god, why am I so start to get rid of the junk. Like, I do that all the time, I still can't get rid of it. But keep trying. So now we need to make our work visible. So we agreed to these kind of basic values. If we all work the same way. We all use the same time management system to process our backlog, emails, voicemails, meetings, text, all that they will have a better insight to what we're all working on. Therefore, we can make better decisions what to do. And we better will be better because it's really easy for me to delegate not knowing what's on your plate. Hey, Greg, can you help me do these two things? I'm president you aren't whatever your power controls happen, right? I tried to give it to you why don't know that you have three statements work getting done, you've promised the three people something, and that's what you're doing is higher value. So we have to have a way to expose our backlog. We often mismanagement commitments, because we just don't know that. I also don't have the freedom. Like I can't go speak at conferences or travel or teach or do what I like to do if my backlog isn't exposed, because I can't show people what I have as a responsibility. And I can't even make a trade off to say, am I gonna speak here and here and here? Am I gonna go on a speaking tour? If I have too much backlog, and nobody else can absorb my backlog? Right, what's going to happen? I have to make a value decision. And I can't do that unless I can truly manage it. So Inbox Zero. I'm not that good at drawing. So but basically, you have meetings, you have personal things you want to do your personal life, you have projects, you have departments you're supporting, right, you have options, you can do defer, delegate, delete, so we use Trello because it's free, and we forward things into Trello. So this is how we get to Inbox Zero. I have to take my my inbox is my worst possible queue for project management. I can't sort I can't do what I want to do. I mark things on red I flag things I shove stuff in folders, it just becomes unruly, right? It's I'm in like a dam like faster than I can actually get rid of the water, it's coming in all the time. So if I don't shove that somewhere so I can actually manage it, I can't do that an email and find out a way to do that better than this, let me know. So we create a personal Trello boards, everybody on our leadership team has one, we create a list in there called inbox zero, we then go in and generate an email address, so we can forward things into that email. So I can forward any email with attachments, whatever it takes into it. Okay. I have a standard school list I'll show you. And then I have a calendar view. So this is one of my, this is one view of my board, she has a Trello board, I forget everything in inbox zero, then I take it and I move it out. I can't read it. But this is my boat names to 25. That's a whole number. So in managing the ship, there's things I have to worry about. Product Development, these are new ideas of things, I want to build some day, things I need to read, I get a lot of stuff like everybody read this, read this, read this read this, I have to pit I have to reserve my reading time, whether I'm driving down here to Columbus, or I'm on a plane, or it's quiet time, some time. I can't just read every article that I think every learning opportunity comes in front of my face. So I have to batch it up. Right? So I batch it up. And when it gets too big, then I'm like, Well, I've heard a burn down this backlog. Or you know what, I was really interested in this topic. And now I'm not that interested in anymore. So I'm gonna start deleting it. Right when we had a great lunch discussion. And in a Sarah sent me a whole bunch of great stuff on whole philosophy. And I was like, Oh, that's great. But now we don't really care anymore. So I have to actually hone that backlog down. I have other boards. So here's just backlog, here's conferences, here's things I need to schedule, here's things I scheduled two weeks out, because we're one week out. So the key is every meeting I make is is consuming my capacity. It's burning down on my available availability of my 40 hours a week. So I have to manage that. Because once I accept a meeting, I made a promise. It's no different than I promised a product owner, I was gonna deliver them something. Okay, I made a commitment that I was gonna scope at your meeting, and I was gonna do something. So I better take heed of that first, right. Otherwise, we're gonna burn respect, I'm going to start missing meetings and devalued and we're canceling. If I don't think I should go to the meeting, I need the courage to say that's not my highest value. Thanks for inviting me to these next 10 meetings. But that's not really where I'm focused right now. And I trust you guys. I have two other smart people in the room. They're on my team, they'll let me know what's going on. Okay, so say no to meetings, meetings are a big commitment. You figure if you have three or four meals a day you lost 50% of your capacity. Okay, so it's in and how many people here have more than three meetings a day? Right? Yeah, that's our life, right when you get into leadership. So the reason I do it this way is because what I do is I, I actually add a due date and Trello. And the reason I add a due date is now I can pivot to a calendar view. And so here's where I use tools, because my backlog is so unruly. I tried to make this all physical and then travel, I just couldn't do it. I just can't take that much paper with me. So now I can look and say, Well, this is actually last year look. Last year, okay, I'm just going to path agility to maintain t. So these are things that immediately I have during this week's Alright, for appointments. So now what I can do is I can drag my backlog in and fill in the rest of my capacity based on value, no, am I am I going to learn today? Am I going to execute on a project? What am I going to do beyond just these meetings? Again, this looks, this is really hard to do.

And it's really easy to get behind, like, just come to this conference for next couple of days, I'm gonna get buried, and I know I'm gonna have to unbury so I'm gonna have to block time that get unburied on Friday, because I need to get my backlog back into value priority is just going to load up. And there's going to be things that are higher value coming in that need response. So it's really hard to do. Some people have you know, this is Alyssa, just my one of my creatives she, she does people systems, and she creates it on her desk, by when no one listens to my walk up. And her post it notes are on her desk a lot smaller than mine, when you're president, you get inundated with every request for everything in the world. So people have different various degrees, I don't care how they do their backlog, as long as it's visible. If you aren't traveling like me, and this works for you. Beautiful. Now when I go up to interrupt her, I can say oh, I'm cutting in front of our PTO policy or I'm doing right. And I know exactly what her feature what her Epic is that she's working on. And I can make an educated decision about whether my car is really more valued than hers. Questions about that?

Yes. So you put that together you all everybody? Yep.

So it's a question was everybody gets hit? Yes. Do I have to track people down? Out of a dozen of us, maybe two or three of us are doing it on a regular basis because it's hard. Right? Somebody has to be there to say I'm gonna try to flush this system out. Yeah, it's really hard to do. And so we need to get better at it. There's, there's times we're really good. And there's times when we're really bad. And we're, hey, wait, we agreed we're going to try to work the same way. Let's get back to it. So it's like any system passing picks up here and we start skimping on practice standard work down here. Have I measured it to see if this is really providing the value in the effort it takes? I don't have a better have a way to do this yet I wish I had everybody had an assistant to help them organize all their backlog and hone it and say, Hey, shift the value around. I think that might be easier. But I'll take that. So yeah, if anybody wants to try this and help us figure it out, it's, it's hard, but it's something we'll get there. Alright, any other questions? Anybody could try this? All right. Let me know how it goes. Because I always say that and I never get to hear back. And I'd love to know. Yeah, I'm sorry, good.

Luck backlog in or cuts through the project, where you have multiple stakeholders, individual stakeholders, the theory. So what I said it already comes with that as initiatives such as ethics.

Yep, so the problem is, this is just stuff that comes in mostly in my inbox in my meeting calendar, right. So this is Microsoft and Gmail at work, right? Then there's products and projects that I'm working on, right, there's so many other things, I have to as a leader, we do that today, just everybody does it differently. Some of those are in Trello boards, and I can just look at my all view, and I can see it or not, some of them were just on the walls, and they don't exist at all. So I have to figure out a way to juggle that. And so sometimes, what I'll do is take the really important stuff on the walls, and I'll create a Trello card, it just all takes time data entry sucks, it just takes time, right. And so if you're gonna really look at your backlog, and you have to get it all on a system, it's gonna take time and even find a way to do that. So, so various degrees of doing that, I'll probably leave here after two days. And now, I'll just shove everything in there. And then I'll eventually get organized. And I'll eventually walk the project walls and say, Okay, what did I miss while I was on the road, and I'll try to update that. But it's not definitely not a perfect system. But the fundamental thing here is we all are trying to agree to work the same way. Because we make our teams do that. And so we want to practice what we preach if our teams can work one way, why can't even though we're individuals, why can't we try to work, even if we don't work 100% The same way, let's just go in that direction. And everybody do the best they can. And we think we think we'll make better decisions on value and priorities by doing that. And more important, we'll drop less balls. Most people when you're in leadership, you wake up worrying about what balls you dropped. Right? All the little things you didn't do, not all the things you did. Right. And that's, that's it's hard. It's hard to organize that. There's too much. Okay. All right. Another form of waste, we tend to over process, a lot of people think Agile is about creating a democracy and let everybody agreeing on what we should do and what we shouldn't do. That's not true. What we really need to do is is not work. So work so hard at getting 100% consensus. So we'll go into place was, hey, we make a decision about you know, what, what do we have for lunch, and everybody has an opinion, or whatever it is. And I'm like, Okay, I'm reading you, I don't think you really agree with me, I'm gonna commit to you why we should go here. So that's a really lame example. But but anything you do, because we want to be socially accepted. We go for we want everybody to 100% agree. And often that we don't need that, we just need to agree that, hey, we're over a tipping point. Let's just try it. And let's learn from it. So a couple of frameworks that we've teach people. So this one's called fist to five. So again, kindergarten, Paper, Scissors, Rock, VISTA, five, hey, you guys all want to take a break here in five minutes? And we say hell yeah, hell no. Kind of in the middle, okay, kind of over the middle. I'm more on the top end, kind of want to do that. So by doing quick throw down decisions like this, we don't over analyze, we're doing this at Cardinal diffuse. And we did, we're making like, 2025 decisions in the morning when we first started as a team, because we're, Hey, should we buy a couch? Should his chair be blue? Should this whiteboard be, you know, magnetic or not? Right? We're a new team. So we were all trying to get consensus, and not upset anybody because we're storming, norming, we're perform. We're trying to do that. So so we decided we could just do these things, and everything. And most of the time, we're all three are up, right? So right, okay, let's just try. What's the worst thing that happen, we just go in that direction, we don't have to have a meeting and talk about the pros and the cons and this and go get public consensus and do it, let's just, let's just take a chance, let's do something. So so this is we actually have an app you can download. It has a lot of these tools and cards in it. As an example, these guys don't win in the morning. And, you know, every once in a while you're gonna get one of these and you're gonna get a rock, right? You're gonna say, wow, we're really different on this. You're like, hell no, hell yes. You too should talk. And then come back to us until we Why Why are you so adamant against it? When you say admin for Oh, because the way John said it. He made it sound like it was gonna be that way forever. And it wasn't just an expense or whatever it is, right? Or, you know, I actually have some data points on this. I understand this. And I've done this, and this is what happened. And I've been here longer. And I know that you know, before we do this, we're going to talk to facilities we're going to talk to so and so, and we need to get a little bit more consensus before we just make that. That's great. That's insight we use. So now we bring that in Say back to a team and say, Hey, listen, we just learned from Mike, you know, this is what he thinks is going to happen what he does when we vote again. And often it'll change substantially. If it can't change, then we'll do six thinking hats. So many people familiar with this. Right? Edward de Bono old stuff, right? We just reuse what works. So this is a simple book where you basically have a facilitator come in the room, they wear the blue hat, and they force us through the emotional process states we're in. So maybe Greg's isn't a bad day, and he's black hat and everything, right? We say, Okay, well, first, what are all the if we're going to do this thing? What's the worst possible thing that can happen? We all brainstorm on the worst possible outcome? What's the best possible outcome? How do we feel about this, like what feelings strike us when we talk about it? So we basically go through these emotional hats. Now we have some data up on the board. Now we can take another vote. And often this moves us and I've done this for things like, I don't code anymore. Try, but I don't and so that I hear developers arguing about technical frameworks, and they can't agree on which way we're gonna go, and they do all this mock this, let's try this. And then we, we do a sixth thinking hat on it. And all of a sudden, we come out with a direction that, you know, it wasn't the loudest person in the room. So we're trying to give everybody a voice, right in the decision making process, which, without dragging it on forever. So that's what these frameworks are meant to do is to kind of make decisions quickly as a team. And then when we don't agree, come up with a process to try to get their agreement, right, and try to get there fast, right? Because we don't want to over process over wait. We don't want delays delay decisions. If it's slowing up how we work as a leadership team are causing emotional unrest on our team, we need to resolve the conflict because as conflict lingers, it slows down the system. Right? Geez. And Craig's pisted, John, and John's business training series, right? And it's like, all this, like black cloud starts falling over everything. So we just need to get these things cleared. It's a simple framework. Another technique we do this is you're going to follow Edison's management, three to book and he adapted from somebody and then we adapted it. But basically, this is talking about how many people are familiar with RACI, responsible accountable consultant for him, right? Oh, yeah, PMI folk, right? So this is an example where, hey, we're thinking about throwing this great agile conference, okay. And we know that to do the conference, like we all voted, oh, yeah, let's do this thing, right? We all have our backlog somewhat organized. So we know what our commitments are. Now, we've just signed up for the work. So we're like, Okay, so tell Sal, this is kind of the responsible, accountable side. For me, it's I want to be involved with the location of the venue, but I want to, like, agree with someone on it, I don't want to tell you where it's going to be. I don't want just give you my opinion, I'd like to have a say in the decision making process. So what happens we put up we know for a company location, food and drink advertising, money and speakers. So now we put our names up here, and we're like, wow, okay. So often, more often than not, everybody puts their names over here. They're like, wait a second, I thought it was an awesome idea. But I didn't think I was gonna have to do all this work, right, I thought you would get the speakers you would do the food, you would do this. And I would just show up for two days and, you know, get a free lunch and hang out. And so by doing this, you could start seeing or, you know, hey, this time Bill, sign up for the food and drink and he served rice and beans. Right. And Amy gave her opinion, right? But Bill made this, you know, he was ultimately responsible, accountable. So now the next time I go to do this, I'm not going to maybe maybe next time for the food venue. Since I didn't like the way it went. I'm response removing myself over here. And taking more responsibility and accountability for it, it happens, rather than sitting back here and just judging what happened. Okay, so creating these kinds of responsibility charts, you know, work, and it makes it It's physical. So you can't hide, I can't go after the conference, a bill. Remember, you were here. And the food was in the survey said the food was horrible at that conference. And yeah, you know, maybe at some point, we could have raised our hand and said, hey, I can use a little bit of help with the food here. Because, you know, I don't have enough budget, or I didn't, you know, didn't have enough support, right, and getting it done. And so, you know, it creates this kind of, again, accountability, culture, and people will shift based on what they know. So, the last thing, so we talked about that was standard work. Now we're gonna talk about continuous improvement. Okay, so the one of the best books I listened to lately, one of my friends here in Columbus had read, listen to this, it's on Audible, or you can download for free Leanpub. It took an hour and a half. If you put it on speed, level three, I run at speed level five. So three is not too bad. But if you run out three is about an hour and a half. There's three additions to this. You can listen to the first edition and get most of it. But this guy runs a woodworking plant, and all he does is implement tools, Lean tools that improve the woodworking process. I'm not a woodworker, but it was really interesting. His whole industry is reduced around creating eliminating waste in the wood carpentry practice. So the notion he came up with these pretty crazy guy is you should improve everything by two seconds every day. So rather than have big Kaizen events, what you do is you try to improve you improve every day. So every day, I listened to Paul and we're trying this is an experiment. I mean, I wear this goofy sign. I take an iPad, and I walk around right and I asked people some questions right? On video. Okay. I give them they have 15 minutes to improve roof. It was 30. We took it back to 15. He does an hour in his shop. And we say, Okay, what's your name? What bugs you? Why Does it bug you? How did you fix it? what ways did you eliminate, and these are the forms of waste, right? Eight Deadly Sins of Lean waste, and give credit to anybody that helped you. So I don't care if you're going to go fix the way a desk is organized, I don't care, whatever you're going to do something your environment bugs you something little around you. So we want that to be part of your culture every day, we created a lean doc Kaizen channel, these are some of the things we did, whether it's post it notes, we're arguing about our overhead calculation, using Kaizen foam to organize our flippers, Randy's here, the curd coffee machine came out, we have to read a barcode. So we had to hack it to make the coffee flow better. So we have all these different improvements. And this is an example of one I'm just to give you an idea how this goes.

Hi, I'm John Stoll. And what bugs me is printing, we have a two story boat here floating in Cleveland. And we have to run downstairs to get stuff when we printed to do one big printer down there. So I'm sitting here working right. Now I gotta go get it. So follow me on my journey, and you will see the waste ensues.

You don't want to

hear that? Didn't even print, which happens a lot from printer, which is another waste that defect. But let's assume it did print, let me get it and I'll walk back upstairs. Meanwhile, I'm most likely to get distracted by somebody. So chances are I don't make it back to my desk without talking to someone and shifting what I'm focusing on, which is another form.

Okay, so fact, that took a long time, lots of opportunity to not focus on what I was focusing on. So Lisa and I did some calculations, it's about 36 seconds each way, takes about 60 steps, it's about 72 seconds, every time we have to do that. We took a poll in the office, it kind of informal, and we think we print probably about an average seven times a day, we have about seven people that make that journey seven times a day. So we're basically wasting about 58.8 minutes a day. So call it an hour, an hour per day, which is almost 251 hours a year. So Lisa and I bought a printer. And we had a printer here before but it wasn't a network printer, couldn't print color couldn't print duplex. So that's what forced us to get out of the better printer. And the crappy printer nobody wanted to use because you had to plug in with a USB stick time and energy. And so now with this thing, we can plug into the network, it's also wireless. And we're gonna save a crapload of time. So what do we say? I mean, there's a ton of stuff, defects, processing, transportation, waiting, loss of potential of employees, because we're getting distracted with conversations as we make that journey. So this was a huge improvement. And our two Secondly, improvements. So thanks to Lisa Schindler for giving me a hand. So that's a more elaborate one, we actually have data behind it. But it can be up just about anything, you can go check out our videos and see what we do. It's the notion is that it's easy to for us as leaders to pick the big improvements. But if you pick all the little things around you, and you just improve on them, it's part of your culture, it's not good enough just to see that this is bugging me is inefficient. We organize it. So we actually like anything, we have standard work. So this is our standard work. We do our daily stand up. We do our show Intel during the show until I display the two second and pretty proven videos from the day before we Bang a Gong, we have a gong Srini looks familiar. I had like these all over nationwide funds on but we Bang a Gong because we're celebrating that we've improved something just because it's fun. It's good to hit things. We declare our next improvement, right? And then we work on it and we work on it. We shoot the video, we upload it. This is where you can get the book. This is our chart. So we actually charted out on the wall. Are we making improvements? We aren't doing this at the moment, we chose to do something else improvement wise. But it was I liked the notion because rather than big Kaizen events on big process big changes. It's just like do something low. You start every day with a stand up, and then you improve something small that makes you smile and say this a little bit better than it was yesterday, even if it's small. And then you're off to a good day, right? It just kind of sets that culture that everybody can improve anything in the system. No matter what it is. Even the small things are just as important as the big things. So it's just part of the DNA. We bought this nice work cabinets, we can organize our tools and make things that are gone. Last point here is sacred cows. So often we go into cultures we start radiating out who you You're in what you are. There's always something hanging out there. Oh, yeah, but this but that or don't do this or why is he doing that? Right? There's always this back channel of things and these things, these, these things can be really big like, Okay, you Srini would never like this, like, what do we ask him? When No, he just never has? What do we have the courage to say, hey, Shireen, you know what the hell like, like, can we talk? This is really like slowing down our system. The belief is we can't try this. Most leaders operate the improve the entire system, if there's something they're doing, or some behavior that's perceived, it's, there's, there's a gap between reality and perception, right? And we need to find that in between. Right? If you're gonna create a continuous improvement culture, you got to get that in between nine times out of 10, we hear this perception, and then we go to check reality and we're like, okay, there's some truth to that. Not enough truth to create all this process, all this fear, all the stress, all this concern, and all these reasons why you can't improve. And so to do that, we implement like a token in Cleveland, we just were on a boat, we picked the manatee. So we got Boomer. And down here in Columbus, we created Bruce a sacred cow, their office happens to be next to landscaping place. So there was a cow there. But it's just a symbol saying, Do we have any sacred cows and as a leader, you have to check that, right? Because the best leaders in this room want to know their say they want to know what their what what's bogging us down. And it's often I said, perception is not reality, once thing was said one time, and it became the reason that things can't improve or reason things can't be done. So this is just like a little symbol that we use to remind people, those things exist. We actually lean dog use these, this comes from extreme programming. So CC, fr, LS, we added the l live. But basically, anytime I'm about to have a crucial conversation with somebody, I want to go and keep it going sure anybody should use ECFR or A or C, or LS. I'm saying that saying, Hey, I'm trying to improve here, it's my safe word. So don't just take attack, I'm like really going to have a crit I'm about to give you a courageous feedback, or ask you something hard. And so I don't I can't remember the manifesto, or the Lean rallies and principles. I can least remember these letters. And we know when we hear those letters that hey, don't get your hackles up, we're actually going to have a hard conversation in the best intention of moving, moving our team forward. Right. So having saved for it's part of psychology, sociology, very important, have them in your culture, use them. Don't make them just lip service. So it doesn't work. See didn't work

don't have a cursor, you'll see your cursor at

this top top left, I can't see it on my screen. Oh, I can see it over there. Okay, there.

We had just moved into the building. We've been here about a week, we were really trying to drive a new culture. From the first moment that people walked in the door and started working here we have a large culture change going on. And moving to agile practices, both from an engineering perspective and a management perspective,

with the startup effort, like what we were going through that we had a lot to accomplish in a short period of time. So how to gain consensus and then communicate that outward was, was a big challenge.

We had a perception from our teams that we weren't communicating effectively, they brought

us a lean methodology that we didn't have. So we either had the choice of creating something from scratch on our own. Or we could leverage somebody like lienzo to help us get there quickly.

And they brought a lot of great experience from the market. And two things that we could do to both engineering practices to how we get teams executing a different way, thinking about things a different way, as well as bringing in a lot of kind of visual management techniques and lean techniques.

In a world now where everybody's all about storing information electronically. They kind of went the other direction said let's put this information out in a big invisible way and show everybody what we're doing.

One of the most surprising bonuses of the engagement is we learned a lot of collaboration tools,

all the conversations that we had helped to get some priorities out on the table it helped get some problems out on the table

lean dog was really fun to work with. They have a lot of great energy. They're very transparent, honest and real people Lindahl

helped us one with the lean, agile methodology. They brought in a package solution they were able to implement immediately to they brought the experience and the techniques to convey that information and three, just the energy and creativity to pull that off and and to get excited about

so So I taught you guys everything I know. So you go do this, right, you don't need us. So sounds great, great kit. But basically, you know what we believe what is speed and lean right? Seeing your standard work so you can improve the system, creating a continual improvement things, whether it's retrospectives to second liens, Kaizen events you need to have, he didn't know what your improvement steps are, with safe words and things to do that as well. And then creating people systems creating the best people systems you can so you can uncover your skill if you can get rid of waste, continually improve, see the standard work the same way, you're much better chance to create and a high performing organization. This is actually the boat before we renovated it was a restaurant. That's a submarine, if you ever come up. And that's it. That's what we talked about. Questions? Am I out of time? Five minutes? Yes,

I remember you started at nationwide. Okay. I was thinking, Where did I come from? That's, I remember you showing us how it set up and everything. Yes, the Agile requirements.

I would say it starts off I remember you. I can put my helmet back on.

Some questions? Okay. Oh, how much do you spend every year on post it notes? Yeah. If we own stock, right, yeah. What's funny is, if you saw one of the pictures, we start with a brown paper, just go buy a roll kraft paper for 10 bucks. And we actually learned that from one of our colleagues and products, Jeff Patton. That's all he uses brown paper, because he gets painted tape and brown paper and doesn't even go to make it pretty even though he's a designer. So you can start cheap. And we spent a lot of money on magnets to and all kinds of different creative sticky clips. And

we've created a brand new innovation space, right? It's great new shiny that we just opened. Right when Windows, right? But we don't really have whiteboards. But in a meeting room, we do right on Windows. They don't want to sleep anything up. They want pristine clean. So what kinds of things can we take back to them saying, Hey, this is really the way to go.

So everybody hear that? Okay, so the question was, they have this innovation open room, but people still don't mess up the walls because they want to clean right? So that's usually facilities or HR or somebody that says, Yeah, we have to create a process is messy. Right? The Apple Store innovation doesn't happen in the Apple Store. Right? Right. That's where they showcase their products. So don't make your place look like the Apple store. It drives me nuts, I kind of sometimes I'm a clean freak, sometimes not. But when I go by my space, and I see our makers was just stuff ever I wish this was all organized and neat and tidy. But I have to respect that it's it's a creative process, and they're going to make it messy. So typically, we'll help educate facilities. So first, we'll take them on tours of other customers, and and make them comfortable with the notion that it can be really different. And then there's a couple of videos, we show them the idea of shopping cart, video, gold. And what we do is when we see that video, as part of our class two is you'll see a high performing team. And when you see a high performing team, that's what everybody wants. Right? In fact, are we yeah, we got a lot of cool toys, right? We have a lot of fun. Some of the best teams I work with aren't don't they don't have that stuff. And they're still awesome, awesome teams, because it gets stuff done. If they're shipping value building great products for their customers, they have fun. So we often we give people tours will show them the shiny places or place the fuse other places, right. But then we'll also take them to the people who are not necessary in a basement. They have a couple of windows. But that's about all they have. You know you were there two years. Yeah. Right. And that was one of the happiest teams ever saw. And they had the least, but they are shipping great product. And the product owners love them. So it didn't matter. Because they went home every day after kindergarten say we did the best damn job we could we learned the most we're the most transparent. So. But yeah, it's worked with your facilities. Sometimes you get an outside opinion saying, Hey, can you can you take a tour? And can you open their mind to usually when they see it? For some reason facilities, people have the best job security and they're like, they're forever. And so you see, and I remember back when it was like that here, back when we were a lot smaller, it was fun. It was creative, and it was energy. Now we're, you know, so So usually you have to find a way to connect with that person, psychology wise or sociology was.

comment that one of the practices that you have that at the end of the week or whatever, you go through your process and say, What do I need to clean up? That sounds like the process and you own your space.

So do retrospectives not just on your projects on your space? How's this boat working? Right? That's what we do. We make an intentional effort to say how's our how's our boat system working? How's our office system working? What can we do to make the environment we'll talk about the projects, just how we don't living on living on a boat together? Because we're all living on you know, We're all there. So we have to do it. So it's becomes pretty clear when you come into our culture that it's just it's standard work. It says on the wall Friday stand up the polka music. Don't sit down. It's like musical chairs, right? You sit down and that's bad. So we also Institute there's a concept I didn't talk about yet. But that's so one way to get norms stick is that penalize people, but in a fun way. So most humans are really bad at giving people saying bad things like hey, you're a slob. You know, you always leaving your coffee cup out, you're doing that. So we have a debt wall, like, Hey, if you leave if you leave your place messy Oh, two bucks, not because we want your two bucks. But we leave them like, Hey, did everybody agree that he just left his coffee cup there. And now I don't want to clean up after him. And I'm not gonna sit in his workspace. We have leave your cell phone unattended. If your phone phones on attend and you walk away and your wife keeps calling and is vibrating. You're like, okay, it's disrupting me. So when we do retrospectives on our space, some of the things that make it uncomfortable to work in that environment are social norms. Like what norms do we need to adhere to, we all agree that we shouldn't leave stuff around. We all agree we shouldn't leave cell phones and attended, we all agree that we should, you know, if you eat, you should wipe down your space after you eat. So then when we do our improvement things, you'll see things start popping up like hey, one of the reasons we don't clean up after we eat is we don't have access to cleaning materials. So let's make a spot on every desk where there's a clip thing of Clorox wipes on every desk. So now the barrier isn't you had to go fight there. Or the excuse can't be I didn't have any Clorox wipes, no, there's actually a round.on your table where they sit. And when that queue is empty, we're going to put another one there. So you always have cleaning supplies, there's all these little things we do in a work opening workspace environment to make it work. But having a way to pick on people's good. We did it one time we did it up in Cleveland, when I was at nationwide, and we had we built up so much debt, that we actually had to have a way to pay it down because everyone was people were earning so much money initially. So we had a pet food eating contest day, if you could eat natural, natural pet food, you could pay down your debt. It was a fun team building event that HR didn't like me for it. But we sure had fun doing it. Right. And it was just it's just you have to, you have to do fun, weird things. And, you know, sometimes we take the debt and we give it to charity, or we do a happy hour, whatever we want to do with it. But if somebody comes to me and says, Well, hey, I'm going to be late for standup every day. Here's 20 bucks. I'm just getting let's talk ECFR what's going on? Oh, well, my kids get on the bus late or I can't adjust this my great. I'm sure the team will understand that. Hey, team next retro, can we move the standup five minutes because he's got a personal situation where he has to get his kids on the bus now. All right. So all those things are the things you have to do as a servant leader to listen for? And then figure out okay, what's the countermeasure is you know, how do we talk about it? Remember, okay,

remember that HR?

So, yes?

So the question is, how do we basically keep an audit log? How do we remember what happened in the past? Most of this stuff doesn't matter. I'm not getting audited on running my company, right? In other words, what the sales funnel looks like on a given day, or are our people's improvements are going those things projects a little, maybe a little bit different, right? So Scrum teams projects lean, we'll take pictures of the wall, and we'll check them in with GitHub, we'll check them in our source code. Often pictures are actually more credible to an auditor than a software tool. Because you aren't faking it, you're taking a picture on a wall, it's got a timestamp, you put it in, and you're like, yeah, it might be a little traceability might be a little bit hard. But we're checking in with the code that we put it in. So we do, we, I typically though, I will hire an administrative person on a large scrum team. And I say 12 to 20 people, not six, seven or eight, not the normal scrum side, but I believe in larger teams because of flow and Kanban. But anyway, so yeah, we'll archives necessary, often, you know, meet with the auditor at front, here's how we work, what do we need to make you happy? Can I take a picture and check it in? Can I take a picture and email it to you like, what would I need to do to pass your requirements? It doesn't have to be in a fancy software tool. Yes.

So now a presentation most of the terms like visual management on PC do have another agenda, themes as to what's the difference between the normal agenda line? And then.

So the question was, isn't it agile and lean? So Agile is a set of values and principles? Lean has a set of values and principles, Extreme Programming does? Right? They're all good things. In fact, your company's values and principles are good thing. I like to think that Agile and Lean are extremely similar. Except I think that that agile, put more emphasis on the product owner side of things, because a lot of lean manufacturing was the manufacturing process. You go back to the history. So you know, I think I think lean, lean and agile together. What makes it work right? That's what me or at least one is because we're you have to have the notion of eliminate waste, versus going through the ceremonies and doing the cards and doing the work. So I think that Agile Scrum agile was not enough that with Kanban, Trumbo and lean thinking Lean principles, you just have to create create a continual learning environment really what I want, I don't walk into a company, a company and judge them, were you lean or are you agile, I can walk in and I can listen. And if I hear a whole bunch of people collaborating, who are happy, and talking through what they're doing, and pairing, you have a high performing team, because it's not the typing is the hard part. It's solving the problem. And if I'm talking through whether I'm writing an email or writing code or designing something, and I have bright minds collaborating to reduce waste, and get things done faster, and I don't see the blame game, I seem T shaped people flowing downstream that eliminated current straight in the system, call it agile called Lean. I don't care if it's a high performing team. So you know, I think I just like to think about high performing teams more than anything, you know, when you see it. Right. And you'll know in a second I can walk in, I don't care if you check off every practice you're doing. If I walk in and that buzz isn't in that room. It's not You're not doing the right practices. You don't have the right culture. You might be doing the practices but you don't have the culture is once you get the culture, you can't fight the culture is what what makes it work. Okay, any more questions? All right. Thank you all very much. Thank you


## Leading Lean - 2016 COHAA The Path to Agility Conference

Alright, let's get started. So, Greg bet me I couldn't do this whole conference talk in a full face helmet. So it's worth a beer. So you're gonna have to suffer through it. So they're actually this is a Rick Mears helmet for time IndyCar champion, so I got to borrow it, so they take care of it. So thanks for coming to the talk a little bit about me. So I actually, I'm from Pittsburgh, I went to Ohio State computer science econ degree. I worked up in Cleveland for years. I live in Cleveland now. And I spent the first few years of their building agile teams eventually started getting them all my friends down here in Columbus nationwide, was asked to kind of work with Srini Shireen here to help lead the transformation nationwide. And I spent the last eight years making a career out of it and starting lean. So we've written a book, remote, we're in a book, you can download our agile discussion guide, there's about 60 different practices we teach. So for us, it's not just about Scrum, it's not just about Lean, it's about psychology, sociology, creating high performing organizations, anything we can do to improve flow and improve the team. So feel free to download, it's free. And it's more of a discussion point, all the talking points when we talk about all these different topics, what we cover what we do at lean dawg, we do this, we help companies go Agile and Lean. And then we also have a design build studio. So we are designed to build products up in Cleveland, on our boat. This is talking we talk to you about today is not about how to build high performing software teams. It's how to build a high performing lean organization. So if you're here to hear about, you have your management software team, you want to make them better. This is different. This is more about how you take a bunch of leaders that are on a mission and how to adopt Lean thinking to go faster. And so the topic is this talk is kind of speeding lean, one of the things we do to try to improve a high performing organization at the leadership team level, okay? We'll start off here by watching.

Okay, so buy Rolex. Actually, so the point of that video is that, you know, when you think about speed and lean, it's easier to understand Lean thinking, when it comes by the physical things, right. So whether it's manufacturing, whether you're managing inventory, you can see ways you can see flow, and you can kind of understand where the handoffs are happening, and where the delay, and where even the over commitment over processing all the forms of waste. So our challenge is, how do we actually apply and lean into running a high performing organization, not running the necessary software teams, but again, running, running high performing teams, so I'm not going to preach you guys the principles of Lean, there's enough lean books out there. But these are the principles and then there's the forms of waste. So this talks structured in three parts. First, we're gonna talk about how do we create people systems? Okay, how do we create a continuous improvement environment? And how do we continually improve our standard of work? And how do we do that in the world, it's not physical at all. And you can't see, you know, Jack on a car, and you can't see the inventory. So you have to really talk, how do you manage flow? And how do you manage improving your organization? So let's first talk about the left point there, the high performing teams. So the first key to me is creating a environment. We work for a lot of corporations, we help a lot of corporate cultures try to do this thing. When I started lean dog. Eight years ago, I could do anything I wanted, because I was a startup with no money. And so I could just build whatever I felt like building. So one things I learned when I was here, and I was working at nationwide and we work with people in innovation is you have to think big. So the bigger you can stretch people's minds. They're going to come back to someone who's comfortable. So don't set a goal that you want him to get to. So one way beyond and stretch them to it. So we're looking for Office. We found it at 92 steamship. Okay. So 22 years older than Titanic. As soon as you walk in this boat, you're like this is pretty risky. First of all, because it's old. But second of all, it's it's big and it's been refactored it used to be a restaurant. So it's 10,000 square foot and it was sitting there abandoned for two years and starting a company a down economy, things were cheaper. So I said, Hey, how about I move in and taste the rats off? Turn the lights on? And maybe, maybe, eventually, we can buy it and we did. So what's cool about this again, as soon as people walk on are like, Okay, you mean you have a boat floating like eerie the freezes in the ice in the winter? Like that's pretty weird. And, and so we just want them to think okay, yeah, you can do anything if you open up your mind to you can just go as big as wild as you want. So if you're a Cleveland, come see us there's I'll give you free parking for the Rock Hall, science, Senator browns, wherever you wanna do a lot. I'll just show you around. So the first part about creating your space was letting your team design your space. A lot of people call us up and they say, can you come in and help us to create this open, agile environment? And we could, you know, the leaders, we could certainly do that we can take a budget, and we can buy, we can go furniture, shopping, and pick out all the cool tables, and all the cool things. But ultimately, we're trying to do is hire creative people, creative people that are makers, creative people like to build things, creative. People like to solve things. So almost every creative person I know, and probably everybody in this room has a passion or hobby. There's something about them that ticks right. So in this room, this is the front of our boat. We painted a kraken on the walls. Why? Because I have four really awesome user centered design people, and I can't draw a damn thing. And they can't. And I said, Why don't you guys design something that makes a space in the front of the room? Kind of so you know, I don't know about a cracking because that's kind of like a launch to the grabs a ship and sinks it but I went with it, right? Because it doesn't matter. Because every time I look at that wall, I think about Nicole and I think about Apollo and I think about will and those are the designers that got together and they they now own it. So when somebody comes to their house, they're showing off their work. They're saying, Yeah, we actually painted that we did that, and our leader support and doing that. So if you come to the boat, you'll see stuff everywhere. Somebody gave us an old boat. We had people that were craftsmen and woodworking. We say hey, what can we do with this little boat? Let's turn it into a table. Let's refactor it, reuse it now as part of Bill, Bill Bill refactor that. It took how long Greg months and months and months, but it doesn't matter. Right? Bill did it. And even just last week, he's retired, he still walks in, he shows off that boat, right. And he helped create that he helped build perfect environment. So let your people build. We came across a crazy guitar, because we got the rock on these guitars up there and somebody so I got this car and have no idea how it fits in with the boat, boat theme, but we wanted it so we hanging upside down right? So we like looking at weird things. Things that provoke thought things that make you think outside of the box. So let your people that give him a budget, trust him. They're adults, they can design their own house, they can certainly design our work environment, right? Let them change it up, let them be creative. Let them show off their space. Right? feeling comfortable at your second home is just as important as feeling comfortable with home, right? Let these people show off and let them do it. So I hate it when people give us a budget and say we're just gonna, we're gonna make all the decisions for the team and dammit, they better like our open workspace. Right? It doesn't make sense. They're adults treat them like adults. Okay, give them some budget and let him go. Clearly, we were all about the open workspaces and collaboration, we have it everywhere. We have no offices, all over leadership to open the second floor of the boats where he managed lean dog, I'll show you a bit more about how we do that in a minute. The other thing we value is T shaped people. So we really value diversity. And when I say diversity, I believe going Agile and Lean is kind of like going to it's like when you go back to Agile lean, you're going back to adult kindergarten, right? We all sit in an open workspace, we put our homework up on the wall. Everybody knows who the better reader is. Right? We have show Intel's we show up to work on time we leave on time. Right? We have recess, okay? And we have this continual learning culture. When I was in kindergarten, I didn't know what Trini wanted to be, or Greg wanted to be or anybody else. We're just all there to learn, right? We just created that environment. So one of the best things we do at lean dog. Since we're passionate on building things, we didn't hire just computer science engineers, we hired mechanical and electrical engineers. Why? Because it's all engineering. They're all makers, right? And just gives us that diversity to learn, hey, just because I got a degree from Ohio State and computer science doesn't mean I only want to write code, I'd love to be able to design things and make them useful and usable. I'd also like to learn a lot about electrical and mechanical, right as well, because now I can see software design, make physical design. And now this world of IoT is taken off. And so it was kind of unleashed just on raw talent that we didn't even know we had because we create things for makers. The other thing we don't like to see in the workspace is games, okay? Most of us can afford a Sony a Wii or whatever video game we want. We buy 3d printers, we buy laser printers, we buy Lay's, we buy sauce, right, we buy things that let people create. So when I'm not coding, I'm not solving that problem. Maybe I can go to learn another craft and somebody else in the room and learn how to do something else. So we we bought the first couple 3d printers because they were fun. And now everybody's making with them. And we solve problems every day. I think we had a part on the doorknob go the other day and somebody say up, print that and fix it right. So you never know that from facilities to producing products for our customers, giving people access to things that make with beyond the sciences, right gives them a continual learning path that they normally wouldn't get up outside of your work. So 3d printers are 2500 bucks, buy one usually takes a team of 10 people to keep them around anyways. So it's there's a continual learning curve there but you'll be surprised at the pride they take and, and knowing that by getting 3d printers in our space, we then started running maker nights and now we give back to kids. So we have we teach kids how to do programmable Valentine led book Valentine's gift cards. We do sumo bot wrestling we took a teddy bear we cut a hole in the back of the chip in it, put a gear in its arm run Android app, the tweet at it the way the kids. So now we're actually giving back to the community by teaching how do we combine three engineering disciplines Plus user centered design, right? And so those are skills that I'd never expect Actually certainly in dog that our people would take a passion and do it just because we gave them great maker type stuff. So adult recess we encourage it but it's adult. We have a fitness center over at the airport next door where we're docked. We have a whole bunch of schedules from yoga time to bike riding a cycling that running. We have kickball league summer leagues, we have kayaking leagues. Two years ago, we actually had summer interns that would take our fishing boat, and they would clean the boat in the morning. We take clients out in the morning fishing, they fillet the fish for lunch, and then we serve lunch for customers. So we encourage people to get out and have fun. We treat them like adults. We give them toys. We never had an issue. We don't have waivers. Yeah, don't tell my insurance company. But we don't because we hire responsible people, people that we can trust and we trust them. Right. And we've never had an issue because people don't abuse it. You surround yourself by highly talented people. You really don't have these issues. It's a culture it's a community. People don't abuse. kayaks, paddle boards we provide healthy lunches for people.

In the winter, we even have an ice rink glatt not this year because it was too warm. But last year it froze and we made an ice rink we pump the water up we made a home Boney Zamboni thing and we clean the ice we have ice fishing tents with little gas fire pits in them and we go out we write code and and ice fishing tents. So we expand out onto the ice. We are right next to a world war two submarine here and the Coast Guard's right here. So it's pretty every time they want to do a news article on us like, should you really go out on Lake Erie ice we we watch the Coast Guard train for hours and hours and hours and cold water rescue right next to us. So we feel pretty comfortable. But but they they sometimes don't they can sometimes come over and they get worried too. So. So as I mentioned the key dog kindergarten creating a great high performing team as we hire trustworthy people, and we trust them. Okay, I think most of the waste that we see we go into companies because of trust. Right? We have papers, we have gates, we have signatures, we have sign off with handoffs, why because our trust was violated once and I never want to get burned again. So I'm gonna put rules in place. Every rule slows down the system. Okay, so we like to start with no rules, since you only add a rule if you absolutely need to add a rule, okay. And you can't do that if your culture doesn't believe in this. Okay, if I have a trust issue with something, I have to have the courage to bring it up and talk about it. Right? I can't say Oh, yeah. You know what? I don't want to confront Greg. So we're just gonna write a rule. So Greg, yeah. Because that Greg did that one thing. Maybe Greg didn't even realize he did it. But I have to have the courage, communication, feedback and respect to say, hey, we don't want you don't want us to create the Greg rule to you, right. And so we basically talked about that, let's not let it happen. Again, let's make sure we don't have it. But let's not penalize the whole flow of the system. And our whole trust factor, because one person, so yeah, we have a full bar. We we did retrospectives on our work environment all the time, the only rule we had around our bar, which is not the one that people think is if you have a drink, you have to ring a bell. And why because in a retrospective if you had a drink, and you didn't tell everybody else who was rude, right. And so it was a rude rude to spill. And we even have a rule on the bell here that if you actually don't ring the bell, first you have to bring in a fruit tray for the entire team. And that was to balance out the drinking factor. We felt we bring something unhealthy. And so again, we've never had an issue, we run six or eight meetups a week at a boat with the public still never had an issue with the Lean loggers. There were patrols were watching the boat and were there. People don't abuse it, you know, we move them out of there we do or where you have to do. And it's just it really isn't hard because we're all adults. And we just operate that way. So this is the 3d printing I was telling you about. Yeah, we used this 3d printer to make that 3d printer. Right now we're doing plasma cutters, and we got all kinds of toys and it looks like chaos. But it's like geek chaos, right? There's like stuff everywhere parts, supplies, electrical stuff. You never know what they're going to create next. That other day, I was walking by the refrigerator in the kitchen and I got squirted with water from the fridge. Because they actually figured out how to hack the fridge and make the fridge smart. Right? So they could actually say Amazon echo command support the fridge and all of a sudden in the kitchen, the water would squirt out of the fridge. So it creates this fun environment like what's the challenge? What can we what can we use technology to automate everything in your environment, they try to automate. And then you find out about all these latent skills, which is another form of waste, right? And we can now uncover those latent skills. Now we can leverage them. So amplify learning. So we host a lot of events we bring it in, this is the making the lake this is for kids, we do this twice a month. These ones the Ruby, the Java, the Python, lean, they're even on here. We host a lot of meetings, we pay a lot of money to host those meetings, because I want to bring learning to the people. So we're there on their break. If they're learning by hacking on something, or they're attending one of these events after work. It's just it's just really easy to do and it gives us a sense of pride in the community that we're giving back to community and teaching. A part of our core values giving back we've been Cleveland give camp seven years in a row. We've helped 20 over 20 charities here for seven years. Um, we host concerts and events on the boat. Why? Because again, a lot of people in it are skilled craftsmen. Either they, they're into music, they're into woodworking, they're into cars, or into making something else besides us solving software problems. And so, because of that, you know, a lot of we're in the music. So we have, we had requests for pop up concerts to happen on the boat. And now we have social time. So if we want to hang out after the work and do something social, with no pressures, no tie to technology at all, we just hang out for music. We also get used to having Music Mondays, where we just invite all the geeks in town, regardless just to come and jam on the boat and play. In the summer, we do outdoor concerts on the boat. So I don't know how your environments look. But stretch your mind, try to think big try to do extreme things, trust people tell people you're gonna put rules in unless, unless we broke break trust, like 10 times. And usually it's not, it's gonna be one or two people that just don't get it. So you have to have the courage as a leader to say, Hey, listen, we don't want to our first resistant is not to put a rule in place. That's our first course of action or second course of action, or third, we're putting rules against it. There's no other way we can operate. And then you really have to look at the people system first. Any questions about that? I talk fast. So. Not too quiet. Too dark. Okay. All right. Now let's talk about standard work. So how many people are familiar with the term see the hole in Lean? Right? So this is a two. So we're talking about that. We're talking about how do we see the whole system and that's the hardest thing to lead a team is I hire everybody on my team to manage something, they all have a certain scope of responsibilities, they all have something to watch, they have some system, some standard to keep an eye on whether it's finance, legal, HR sales, you know, software delivery, whatever it is, they all have a certain span of control. And because I'm hiring leaders, they can all create infinite amounts of work, right? So typically, when we go in any organization, you have various degrees of understanding this system. If you've been there 10 years, you probably understand a lot better how things work, how does finance work? How's legal legal work? How's HR, you know, what are the standards for how we actually work in our culture? The problem is, is that it's really easy for us to think that we just agree on this, like we know what the state is. So we often just head nod, right? Yeah, so I'm glad we all agree. But soon as we start making things physical, okay, and put them up on the board and making paper, we can see the differences. And now that we have an explicit model, we can converge right. So this is information radiators, Alastair Coburn from Crystal, right, but it works in lean to, right, it's part of the the key concept of lean and Kanban is make your work visual, so you can understand it. So once we once we now to get there, and now we can create a shared understanding. So this is probably we go crazy on this anybody's ever worked with Lean dog, and we help them to get we go crazy with information radiators, because we just see that they work. Even if you're off by a little bit, whatever countermeasure or option you want to play next to get better as a team can be different if you're just a hair off. So whether it's Microsoft executives, or screenies, or Dave's, or whomever, if we don't, if we aren't exactly on the same page, we can all agree the next thing can do could be just slightly different. That's waste. Okay, because we can see the picture perfectly clear, then we could probably because we're probably all pretty smart people. That's probably how we got to where we were at, we could probably then better off agree on what the best course of action is in reduce waste. So let me show you how this works. Yes, we do have a couple of technology radiators. These are burndown charts and things like that. So in our studio, because we have many customers that we're building for, and they're remote, we do have TVs, but for the most part, that's probably the only digital thing you'll see on the boat. As far as information, radio, everything else we do is physical. These are our team norms. So our team wrote these Apalis is in the other room here with another speaker. And this is this is what the team agreed to right. Everybody agreed that this is a really big deal. It's a really big deal that we're on the same page so we can make a separate action. So anytime we start to go away from using information radiators, we kind of ask ourselves, what are we going to do to uphold our values until this needs to change? It doesn't change. It will do retrospectives. We'll change it if we need to. But the team wrote this I didn't ask him to do it. We talked about the value information Raiders, I actually brought in my own outside lien coach because it's just like why we work to get an outside person to say what your work so we did that. And that when they finally got it. They're like okay, we all get why lean systems work, and why information radiators are a big deal. It's kind of the start of everything when you're going lean. So if you come to the boat, you'll see this is our marketing and well got things up here like how we we don't market very well we just speak at conferences. So we're trying to learn how to do this. After seven years, we're trying to say how do we enter a market? So you have different ways we market you have conversion rates, you have some metrics. This is our speaking conference calendar because that's what we mostly do. But now we have a better rate here on how much how much speaking are we doing versus how much are we doing any online marketing, we're just starting to under under understand this space, it was something we just didn't. I always say we were geeks without a marketing plan, we had no plan, right, we just share what we know. And we hope we wouldn't work. We have a finance wall, become the boat, you can see how much money we have in a bank account. You can see how much each customer that we work for owes us, which is really convenient when they're happy hour and a owe you money.

And you kind of calves in school have a beer over here. And it's check out this wall. But we don't work cash business. If we don't if we don't bring in cash. We don't we have beer mugs here indicating how well we're doing. We're performance. If you want to spend something, you write it on a post it note, you stick it on the spending wall, anybody in the company, we don't have budgets, okay, we're adults. Okay? We all know that upstairs, we each have a different different responsibility. Somebody better make sure we have business to like customer delight and people delight. So if you want to spend money you put up on the wall, hey, I wanted to buy this. After our stand up usually, once a week, we say hey, we're having a spending meeting. And we have three stand ups at the boat, one for the leadership team, one for the boat. And then there's another Studio One. And so basically, we announced during that stand up, hey, today's spending day. So if you want to spend money, you come up and you stand in front of two or three of us leadership team. And you state your case, here's what I want to spend money for. Here's what I want to do it like okay, well, let's check out how are the financials looking, and then you can't see it. But our goals are over here. Like kind of what we're chasing. So we're like, good, does that line up to our goals? You know, does that make sense? And we just talked about it. Often the person, we have to go back and do a bit more research or digging, and we have to understand it better. But it's just this transparency moment to say, giving out money and spending money are the two most political things you do. Right? It's the most complicated thing you do, because money affects everybody. So denying somebody money, or not giving somebody compensation and rewards are very sensitive topics. So we want to make that as transparent as we can. Because it's really a complicated problem for us to solve. And they think the person at the top just can see everything. Like I can't just see the whole system and know where they actually approve your spending requests or years or years or how many stacking up. It's just not that simple. So by saying we often want by just saying the notion, Hey, today is spending meeting, we're gonna have one Thursday after standups. There's also three more people who all have something that want to spend money on. And so they'll bring it up rather than wait. So now we can look at the whole system. It's okay, I thought just you know, I thought just Greg was asking for money, but there's actually eight of you. Okay, that's different. We need to talk about that. And when you talk about the highest value spin, so again, hard to do. More finance, wall stuff. Sales wall, this, oops, that's our sales funnel. So our sales funnel? Yeah, we put it in a tool called pipe drive. But we still make it physical, while we make it visible, because we want to measure Wait, I want to know, you know, how long do I give somebody a statement of work to how long did they sign it we tied up in the MSA process legal process? Because getting things through our system is not everybody's job. It's like what can I do to help you get sales through the funnel? If it's blocked, if there's a blocker there, maybe there's something I can do to help you. Or last issue that was MSA is we have somebody new, known legal and we're really over analyzing MSA is to the nth degree. And finally, why don't we just hire somebody that has some legal background and understands risk, legal risk better than we understand software risk? So we finally realized that they were having a huge delays. And for a really small fee, we could actually really believe aid that constraint we're losing deals because we couldn't meet our customers needs because somebody was new with the legal process, it was one little step. But you could spend eight hours going to contract or 30 minutes, right? It's really up to you. And so based on the engagement, we've sized, how much risk do we want to absorb? Right? If a small quick engagement, maybe we don't analyze the contract. But if we binding for the next five years? And may we better look at this risk a little bit harder, or have the right honest conversations with the customers. Account Management wall. Can't really see it here. But we managed to come back to that in a minute. But these are all of our customers for coaching on one side of the wall and over studio customers. So every week we stand in front of there, how do we know our customers are happy? How are we doing? And it's not just me saying, Hey, I went and visited my customer and they love us. Right? How are we actually going to really validate that we're providing customer delight, are we actually keeping an eye on on that ball and making sure we're doing it, we have these physically cut on boards. So we took a bandsaw we took those trifold boards, we cut them up, we glued magnets on them, because we found that we could then shift customer priorities right a lot quicker on the whiteboard. Another reason why we don't use tools, if I were to put this in a tool, I would have to wait for the software developer to add a feature so that I could do that. Right, versus just making a paper and moving it. And so we kind of create this if you could origami and crafts if you're going to be in kindergarten. Alright. So this is a big visual room. This is an example down here I can speak around Cardinal people in the room. Anyway. So Cardinal Health or few center, went and did a big visual room. We started with their vision, their mission, their purpose, their value stream map, how they're structured today, how they could be structured in the future for more flow. We created a whole ton of walls and this was a new team really high powered team right? You know, create an innovation center and throw your slouches in there, right? So you throw all these higher energy people and say go be innovative and go Agile and Go Lean and do this thing. Well, they all again, have various degrees of knowledge, Gary's degrees of influence various degrees of, of responsibility. So the first thing we agreed we need to do is start getting on the same page. So we started visualizing everything they worked on product portfolios, you know, they were a new organization, but they inherited about 25 Different software assets. Right? They had, this is our backlog. So this is us, the team agreeing on what walls are we going to build, and who's going to build them with us, because I don't know anything about your company. So if you can explain it to me and make it provision on the wall, and I can understand it, I'm the new guy, then that means I'm probably the lowest denominator, and everybody can probably read it, right? Whether I'm interviewing somebody, or anybody, I want them to have that clarity about who we are. And what we're doing. These are the three delights we manage. So we have customer walls, people walls in business walls. So we have to balance these things are people that work for Lean dog have to be happy, right? It has to make business sense, right? We have to make a living, right, and our customers have to be delight. So we'll then take these delights, and map them to the walls. And almost every organization, when we go in, and we first do this, two out of three of these would be really good, and one's gonna be neglected. That's why we create this wall, right? To say, hey, how do we really know that we're managing customer delight? You know, how are we 100% certain that we're doing that, because we get so busy, that it's really easy to focus on ourselves, to focus on the business and the people side and lose and sometimes lose sight of the customer. And if they aren't happy, then these don't exist. So we really have to keep that balance together. This is an example of a customer company alignment wall that somebody in here might think looks familiar. We have an ideation wall. This was how do we do innovation. So we had at the time, it was called shots on goal. Now I think they climb mountains or something. But But nonetheless, you know, we had inherited all these application assets. We were the innovation center, but we didn't have any capacity to innovate. And so we had to say, how do we actually create a new PMO flow that lets us test hypothesis and go more lean startup on this thing? Right? How do we how do we do that? And how we and if we're going to do that innovation way? How do we do it more like a shark tank way where you're in a large company, and everybody throws some funding in the build this beautiful thing. That means everybody wants capacity. But we aren't playing the capacity game anymore. We're playing on the highest value thing. What's the highest value shot on goal we can take? Right? And that's that's the play that you run, right? writ large, largest politically what people want to do. So we often have to go and create different demand funnels that aren't just run the business demand funnels verse, I want to take, I want to take some risk and do some startup stuff. So a lot of PMO work goes into these rooms. We have current product portfolios, we have new products, are these products displacing these products, what's the health of this product is going up is going down? It's going flat? How do we measure whether it's healthy? Are we good? Are we willing to have the guts to kill off a product so that we can build more capacity to do innovation? Right? So again, a lot of PMO work trying to understand how does the value flow in your organization? And when you first do this, and you put it up? These are the aha moments you have like, well, I just don't have enough. I want more of this. And I don't have to agree. Okay, if we all agree, and we only have so much capacity, then what are we not going to do to create capacity to do more of this? Right. And that's often has to sit at the CIO CEO level, making sure that we actually take these chances that we're continually innovating. Large companies can't grow growth by innovation, it's kind of hard, right? Because you kind of acquire a culture that squash a culture, product goes away. So we really have to figure out we can innovate from within more mapping. We have lots of key performance indicators. Every wall has some elements who owns the wall. How often who participates? When, how often do we look at the wall, almost every meeting we have is in front of a wall. It's not in a meeting room. There's nothing to hide, everybody. Everybody who works for us can see us standing in front of these walls, having meetings and trying to make decision and they might have insight. Right, so we don't hide any of this from them. And we don't lock it up and share points and wikis and tools and, and planning sessions. We just do it all in front of everybody all the time. Okay, that's probably enough on walls. Any questions about that? The visual room, tons of paper?

Yeah, so the question is, if it's all physical, what do you do when people aren't co located? So first, anytime you're distributed, there's going to be waste, okay? It's like a long distance relationship. It's takes me forever to build up trust takes a second to tear it down. Right? So nothing's ever going to replace this at first, you have to say, Are we structured? Do we recognize that if we all agree on that principle, then are we truly organized the most optimal way that we can so that we, we aren't as distributive one I might really like work with Srini. But he lives in California, and that's in we're in different time zones. So that may not happen, right? So recognize that's a constraint we have to overcome. It's only going to take work and trust. So I have to say, Okay, let me manage the exception. Not that so often what happens we tune our systems to the minority problem and So we want to optimize the whole. So we want to say 90% of people were on the boat, Sweeney's remote, how can we make sure you happy without dragging down the boat? That doesn't mean that the rest of the people have to shove something to tool to make Srini happy? I mean, it's, I have to have an honest conversation with saying, what information do you really need, and what's the best way we can do this. And when we played with all kinds of stuff, from video to taking photos to call somebody up at the end of the day, or, you know, sometimes it's cheaper to get on a plane, right, it's a once a month, we're gonna, we're gonna, we know, we're gonna start off the month really in sync, because I'm going to be like this with you. And then we're going to be working in this big visual room, we're going to take pictures and do the best we can to relate to you, maybe we'll create some dashboards and some PowerPoints, but for the most part, it's never going to replace being here. So once a month, we got to hook up into space and walk the room, right and get there. So big companies distributed just because they're big, if you're three stories away from somebody, you're distributed, so it's always a challenge. It's just you have to recognize recognize that it's hard. And once people work this way, you also find out that people don't necessarily, once you once you get on the same page with your system, you change it with intention. Okay? It's like just getting on the same page is tremendous. Right, you can now start seeing flows and handoffs. So the amount of change that you incur, is not as great as you would think it's an aha moment of understanding what the whole system looks like. And now saying, Okay, what incremental change are we going to try to make to the system? What parts are we going to try to so a lot of we are ceremonies. So we do we do two week sprints, right? During our sprints, we do a show until this, this wall that well that well that well, we then create a backlog of what things we need to change in our system. And then we got to change them. So at that point, I can go upstream and say, Hey, these are the five things we're going to change. It's not like we're changing the 1000. And you're that out of sync, right. And so you have to work hard at it, but it can, it can be done. A lot of people see all the paper and they get freaked out thinking that it's continually changing. Once we get the same lens, it kinda, it should change with like I said, with intention, if changes unexpectedly, that's when you retrospect and say, Whoa, what happened here? What caused the system to change? We lost flow up this it and now we're getting flown out here. So yes.

So you mentioned all the physical stuff, that's something that's been kind of a debate and in our company, so why does it have to be so physical with like, all the electronic boards that are accessible tools? Why is there really that body works?

So the question is, why does it have to be physical? Is it really worth about the values in the conversation? Okay, it's just like writing a story card, the value is having a conversation about what reality is, and saying, Trina, do you agree, Greg, do you agree? Is this the truth? This is truth. Now we can agree on the next countermeasure option, or card that we're going to play. And so it's a conversation where the value comes out. And the reason paper works is because it's cheap, Mike, I can change that wall any way I want. I can throw it up, I can rip it off. If I miss a meeting, and these guys are hanging out and I'm like, Oh, wow, okay, they got that wrong, I can write a post it note and stick it up there. I don't have to go dive into tool to find the mistake. Even everybody on the company can validate the wall. So if I go in and say I'm doing a practice level adoption wall, and you know, I can't read in your name. So dark in here, Mike says, Hey, we you know, our level, we do test driven development all the time. And there's a big smiley face up there by TDD for your team. And then Greg walks by and says, That's BS. You know, I paired with him last week, we don't do that. So what happens? It's like kindergarten homework gets tricky. If you have to go into a system and have to go in a system and then tweak that and say, Mike, you're wrong, right? There's this, it's hard, people just won't do it, they'll just avoid the conflict, rather than saying our duty is to always have the truth on the wall. First, go update the tool. If you put stuff in a tool, any good leader, if I if I have stuff in a tool, and I'm going in front of my board, what am I going to do? Hey, is this right? Is this right? Is this right? Did you update your data? I'm gonna go beat on everybody to ensure that they got the data right in the tool, because I don't want to look like an idiot saying, I don't know what's going on. Right? You're going to double check it anyways. You're always going to validate the tool before you make a critical or key decision anyways. So just make it physical and make even when we interview people, first thing they do, they come in, they walk the walls, okay, here's who we are. Here's what we do. Here's our products. Here's our sales funnel, here's their applications. Here's who we're trying to make happy. Here's how happy our business is. We're actually talking taking them through and explain them our culture in our systems, and how people work. And at the end that walk on the wall, I hope they say Well, here's how I can help. Right? Here's how my skills fit into this. And I've worked with this customer and I can do this, right, so we're actually testing them as well to see if they can see the whole system. When I put it in tools. There's no way to connect those dots. And mind you you'll never have enough walls. So we only use the walls for the biggest problems. The most complicated things we need to solve deserve a wall. Every Friday after after standup. We do two things. First, we put on polka music. And because everybody hates polka music, sorry if there's anybody that likes it, but but when we clean we clean for 15 minutes. Why? Because it's our house. We built our house, we wanted to be clean. When go away from the weekend. We want to come back on Monday. The second thing we do is we clean off the walls. We go and say okay, well what was this wall over here for Oh, because you know we're brainstorming on this solution and we came up with it. Okay, maybe now we can make this a little prettier, make it take up this much space. and save that precious wall space to put our minds on. It's hard, but you have to try once you try it and you get that big room going. That's why we believe in the big room. If you can get to see how things connect in the system and see the whole system, yes.

checks that are visible, though. I still like that's kind of what I'm talking about some more of the visible, electronic.

We'll do some of that. We'll roll some things up in a PowerPoint like we have a company meeting once a month on a Friday. And yeah, I'm because I have people dialing in, I will summarize some things in a PowerPoint. But oftentimes, it's just pictures of the walls. And we're just telling you the highlights of the wall, you can't even read it. We're like, Hey, these are three cool things about this wall, this will change. But yeah, you're right. I mean, the value, somebody takes a break. And I got I got a developer, a designer downstairs and they take a break, and they come up because we get the beer, right? And they come upstairs and they're like, Hey, what's going on over here, and they'll stand there, and they'll just absorb the walls. And now they're having good questions with you that you wouldn't wouldn't had the opportunity. So that whole walk that you know, leadership by walking around, well, everybody can walk, why did Can't they walk up there and see how we're leading?

Just the support, answered after the last few questions. The first question around, why should it be physical? I think if you've got to co locate a team, physical is significantly better. Because John and I have been working together for many, many years. Wild Things is like the haptic response of me riding a cart and going up there and putting up the actually does mean something because the sense of accountability for the person was very different than somebody else who right and breaks it up in an electronic format. And it's out there is a competition, picking it up and moving it into that next step is important. So again, people are haptic learners, most people learn by experience or having that is important when you've got people who are co located back to the people, what teams are not co located using tools, actually does help with what John talked about is real, like we've done multiple times back and forth on the right way. But using tools does help. But the key to remember is back to it this is one of the cool things I like to get done is always thinking about the mean and waste, right. So when you go electronic, you gotta cut this, think about what waste is. And so if I'm using the electronic, whether you're using Trello, whatever it is, if that electronic board is your system of record for what you're doing, then it's not wasted. It's because you can always put these cards into more than Lego you run your standup based on the electronic board, and you do everything that you started when you missed the happy component of it, that's you deal with that, it becomes a problem when it becomes like one of these things where in order to collaborate with somebody else I've done update that electronic, a secondary system where my primary data is stored, stored somewhere else, and I got converted into cards and that it's not working. It's a complete waste.

And we'll pay administrative people to do that work. Right we'll bring in interns will say hey, listen, just gotta keep this thing in sync, sync if it's that important. The other thing too is I keep one of the one of the biggest ways is late and skills. And when you start making things physical, like we had a Melissa she's probably our newest hire, she came from with a business background. She's helped with recruiting and people systems. And all sudden I thought she was like just amazing artists like she was she takes notes on a talk, she doesn't like taking notes like I do. She like draws pictures, and makes things a story. And like, wow, you could be a designer, like I saw a skill come out and her then now there's a crib and now I say Hey, make these walls pretty, make them readable. And so all of a sudden everybody can improve the system. However they can improve it. So with her with her artistic skills, I had no idea that she had now she's improving the system. And it's quite often even, you know, by them coming to me is like, hey, maybe there's a better way for us to organize this wall by system and they come up with these creative solutions to do it. It's just fun. Making things physical. It's fun when we do things software is all day long. Creating physical things on the wall. It's delightful. I don't see any other way. Good. Any more questions? Here, why don't we get on time. Okay, let's talk now a little bit more about Standard Work pair management. So we pair we don't just pair it the developer level that he's or send his line to team level we pair when we manage. Okay, writing an email is almost like writing code. Okay, if I'm writing a really important email to you, I'm kind of like, Hey, Greg, is this clear? Is this concise? And we're trying to solve a problem trying to influence somebody or get something done. So writing that email, I could take a week and do it. I could take two hours I could take 10 minutes. When we pair we do just enough, right? And so one of the biggest you know, one of the biggest things we're creating our own backlog in demand. We can work forever on something we can refactor reanalyze finally Gregor say dammit just go talk to right. Just stop. This is pick up the phone. We started doing an experiment we actually do voice recordings replies to emails now, because writing has no inflection. And the biggest reason we lose trust is I write one sentence bad and you think I'm pissed off, right? So some like the tone, or caps or exclamation point instead of a period, right? One little thing that tries to show emotion inflection, because we so damaging, that voicemail is very, a very dangerous thing. So we actually try to avoid and I'll show you, I'll show you the extreme lengths, we go to avoid emails, which is kind of hard. So again, you get by pairing, you kind of do just enough, you make less mistakes. And it keeps us honest. So if I'm working with Greg and I'm working with, he's like, What, don't forget, we got to get this statement of work out, or we got to call shimmy, we got to do this, right, he'll make sure that I'm working on on the easiest order, which is really easy to do, especially in the morning, we don't have your coffee, right, versus Hey, I'm gonna tackle my hardest problem that day first, and work on the highest value thing first, right? Even if it's not the hardest problem. So it keeps us honest, and what we're working on saying, okay, is this really what we should be spending time on right now. So we'll ping pong pair, Greg and I do a lot except his driving, and we'll go there. Alright, we do improvement heights, we do a lot of outdoor activities. A three strategy management, I won't go too much in that either. So let's talk about how you manage your backlog. So the biggest challenge we have as leaders is your backlog is infinite. So how do you guys manage it? Right? Everybody here probably has a slightly different personal time management system. Okay. One of things we had to agree as a leadership team, if we're going to actually problem hydraform team, we need to work the same way. This is no different when we teach our Scrum teams. Right. We have certain cadences we're going to ceremonies right story cards, right acceptance criteria, right test. First, we're going to we define all the standard work around application delivery. But as leaders, what are we going to do to manage our backlog, we don't have a clear product owner, we are the product owner. And we can create a lot of product, right? And whatever it may be. So you have emails, you have voicemails, you have LinkedIn, you have text, you have all these things that you have to process and forgot what to work on next, right? So it's kind of overwhelming. So this is how we do it. Every morning, we have a leadership stand. And this is not perfect. Believe me. This is the hardest thing I've ever tried to do in my career. So if anybody here can discover a better way, please share it with me. We have a couple of companies trying to do this with us was really hard. So this is our daily stand up. So this is my leadership team. This is Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, all we do in the mornings, we say what are the top three things that we want to get done today? Just three, okay. And the goal is to stand up and say, Do I need any help with anything? Hey, Greg, can you bear with me on this? This proposal? Can you bear with me on this customer visit whatever it is? When are we traveling? So we try to we try to travel Mondays and Fridays or be on the boat Mondays and Fridays midweek we're up. We're managing customer late and people too late. That's that's the pattern we're on right now. We try to get to inbox zero. So how many people read the book Getting Things Done GTD? Right. Okay, good. So right, you do defer delegate or delete, right. So when something comes in your purview, you can either do it and get it done. Right? If it's quick, right? You can defer it like, Oh, crap, I don't want to write that email, right there. Delegate it like, Greg, can you go to this meeting for me? Or delete it? Right? This is noise, I'm not going to process it. It's wasted inventory. Let me just get out of here. Use your down thumb button a lot, right, and get rid of a lot of junk that just comes in. Everything that comes in there is irrelevant to you delivering value, all that junk mail that takes you away from your train of thought just for a second just to process it, even if it's just like, oh god, why am I so start to get rid of the junk. Like, I do that all the time, I still can't get rid of it. But keep trying. So now we need to make our work visible. So we agreed to these kind of basic values. If we all work the same way. We all use the same time management system to process our backlog, emails, voicemails, meetings, text, all that they will have a better insight to what we're all working on. Therefore, we can make better decisions what to do. And we better will be better because it's really easy for me to delegate not knowing what's on your plate. Hey, Greg, can you help me do these two things? I'm president you aren't whatever your power controls happen, right? I tried to give it to you why don't know that you have three statements work getting done, you've promised the three people something, and that's what you're doing is higher value. So we have to have a way to expose our backlog. We often mismanagement commitments, because we just don't know that. I also don't have the freedom. Like I can't go speak at conferences or travel or teach or do what I like to do if my backlog isn't exposed, because I can't show people what I have as a responsibility. And I can't even make a trade off to say, am I gonna speak here and here and here? Am I gonna go on a speaking tour? If I have too much backlog, and nobody else can absorb my backlog? Right, what's going to happen? I have to make a value decision. And I can't do that unless I can truly manage it. So Inbox Zero. I'm not that good at drawing. So but basically, you have meetings, you have personal things you want to do your personal life, you have projects, you have departments you're supporting, right, you have options, you can do defer, delegate, delete, so we use Trello because it's free, and we forward things into Trello. So this is how we get to Inbox Zero. I have to take my my inbox is my worst possible queue for project management. I can't sort I can't do what I want to do. I mark things on red I flag things I shove stuff in folders, it just becomes unruly, right? It's I'm in like a dam like faster than I can actually get rid of the water, it's coming in all the time. So if I don't shove that somewhere so I can actually manage it, I can't do that an email and find out a way to do that better than this, let me know. So we create a personal Trello boards, everybody on our leadership team has one, we create a list in there called inbox zero, we then go in and generate an email address, so we can forward things into that email. So I can forward any email with attachments, whatever it takes into it. Okay. I have a standard school list I'll show you. And then I have a calendar view. So this is one of my, this is one view of my board, she has a Trello board, I forget everything in inbox zero, then I take it and I move it out. I can't read it. But this is my boat names to 25. That's a whole number. So in managing the ship, there's things I have to worry about. Product Development, these are new ideas of things, I want to build some day, things I need to read, I get a lot of stuff like everybody read this, read this, read this read this, I have to pit I have to reserve my reading time, whether I'm driving down here to Columbus, or I'm on a plane, or it's quiet time, some time. I can't just read every article that I think every learning opportunity comes in front of my face. So I have to batch it up. Right? So I batch it up. And when it gets too big, then I'm like, Well, I've heard a burn down this backlog. Or you know what, I was really interested in this topic. And now I'm not that interested in anymore. So I'm gonna start deleting it. Right when we had a great lunch discussion. And in a Sarah sent me a whole bunch of great stuff on whole philosophy. And I was like, Oh, that's great. But now we don't really care anymore. So I have to actually hone that backlog down. I have other boards. So here's just backlog, here's conferences, here's things I need to schedule, here's things I scheduled two weeks out, because we're one week out. So the key is every meeting I make is is consuming my capacity. It's burning down on my available availability of my 40 hours a week. So I have to manage that. Because once I accept a meeting, I made a promise. It's no different than I promised a product owner, I was gonna deliver them something. Okay, I made a commitment that I was gonna scope at your meeting, and I was gonna do something. So I better take heed of that first, right. Otherwise, we're gonna burn respect, I'm going to start missing meetings and devalued and we're canceling. If I don't think I should go to the meeting, I need the courage to say that's not my highest value. Thanks for inviting me to these next 10 meetings. But that's not really where I'm focused right now. And I trust you guys. I have two other smart people in the room. They're on my team, they'll let me know what's going on. Okay, so say no to meetings, meetings are a big commitment. You figure if you have three or four meals a day you lost 50% of your capacity. Okay, so it's in and how many people here have more than three meetings a day? Right? Yeah, that's our life, right when you get into leadership. So the reason I do it this way is because what I do is I, I actually add a due date and Trello. And the reason I add a due date is now I can pivot to a calendar view. And so here's where I use tools, because my backlog is so unruly. I tried to make this all physical and then travel, I just couldn't do it. I just can't take that much paper with me. So now I can look and say, Well, this is actually last year look. Last year, okay, I'm just going to path agility to maintain t. So these are things that immediately I have during this week's Alright, for appointments. So now what I can do is I can drag my backlog in and fill in the rest of my capacity based on value, no, am I am I going to learn today? Am I going to execute on a project? What am I going to do beyond just these meetings? Again, this looks, this is really hard to do.

And it's really easy to get behind, like, just come to this conference for next couple of days, I'm gonna get buried, and I know I'm gonna have to unbury so I'm gonna have to block time that get unburied on Friday, because I need to get my backlog back into value priority is just going to load up. And there's going to be things that are higher value coming in that need response. So it's really hard to do. Some people have you know, this is Alyssa, just my one of my creatives she, she does people systems, and she creates it on her desk, by when no one listens to my walk up. And her post it notes are on her desk a lot smaller than mine, when you're president, you get inundated with every request for everything in the world. So people have different various degrees, I don't care how they do their backlog, as long as it's visible. If you aren't traveling like me, and this works for you. Beautiful. Now when I go up to interrupt her, I can say oh, I'm cutting in front of our PTO policy or I'm doing right. And I know exactly what her feature what her Epic is that she's working on. And I can make an educated decision about whether my car is really more valued than hers. Questions about that?

Yes. So you put that together you all everybody? Yep.

So it's a question was everybody gets hit? Yes. Do I have to track people down? Out of a dozen of us, maybe two or three of us are doing it on a regular basis because it's hard. Right? Somebody has to be there to say I'm gonna try to flush this system out. Yeah, it's really hard to do. And so we need to get better at it. There's, there's times we're really good. And there's times when we're really bad. And we're, hey, wait, we agreed we're going to try to work the same way. Let's get back to it. So it's like any system passing picks up here and we start skimping on practice standard work down here. Have I measured it to see if this is really providing the value in the effort it takes? I don't have a better have a way to do this yet I wish I had everybody had an assistant to help them organize all their backlog and hone it and say, Hey, shift the value around. I think that might be easier. But I'll take that. So yeah, if anybody wants to try this and help us figure it out, it's, it's hard, but it's something we'll get there. Alright, any other questions? Anybody could try this? All right. Let me know how it goes. Because I always say that and I never get to hear back. And I'd love to know. Yeah, I'm sorry, good.

Luck backlog in or cuts through the project, where you have multiple stakeholders, individual stakeholders, the theory. So what I said it already comes with that as initiatives such as ethics.

Yep, so the problem is, this is just stuff that comes in mostly in my inbox in my meeting calendar, right. So this is Microsoft and Gmail at work, right? Then there's products and projects that I'm working on, right, there's so many other things, I have to as a leader, we do that today, just everybody does it differently. Some of those are in Trello boards, and I can just look at my all view, and I can see it or not, some of them were just on the walls, and they don't exist at all. So I have to figure out a way to juggle that. And so sometimes, what I'll do is take the really important stuff on the walls, and I'll create a Trello card, it just all takes time data entry sucks, it just takes time, right. And so if you're gonna really look at your backlog, and you have to get it all on a system, it's gonna take time and even find a way to do that. So, so various degrees of doing that, I'll probably leave here after two days. And now, I'll just shove everything in there. And then I'll eventually get organized. And I'll eventually walk the project walls and say, Okay, what did I miss while I was on the road, and I'll try to update that. But it's not definitely not a perfect system. But the fundamental thing here is we all are trying to agree to work the same way. Because we make our teams do that. And so we want to practice what we preach if our teams can work one way, why can't even though we're individuals, why can't we try to work, even if we don't work 100% The same way, let's just go in that direction. And everybody do the best they can. And we think we think we'll make better decisions on value and priorities by doing that. And more important, we'll drop less balls. Most people when you're in leadership, you wake up worrying about what balls you dropped. Right? All the little things you didn't do, not all the things you did. Right. And that's, that's it's hard. It's hard to organize that. There's too much. Okay. All right. Another form of waste, we tend to over process, a lot of people think Agile is about creating a democracy and let everybody agreeing on what we should do and what we shouldn't do. That's not true. What we really need to do is is not work. So work so hard at getting 100% consensus. So we'll go into place was, hey, we make a decision about you know, what, what do we have for lunch, and everybody has an opinion, or whatever it is. And I'm like, Okay, I'm reading you, I don't think you really agree with me, I'm gonna commit to you why we should go here. So that's a really lame example. But but anything you do, because we want to be socially accepted. We go for we want everybody to 100% agree. And often that we don't need that, we just need to agree that, hey, we're over a tipping point. Let's just try it. And let's learn from it. So a couple of frameworks that we've teach people. So this one's called fist to five. So again, kindergarten, Paper, Scissors, Rock, VISTA, five, hey, you guys all want to take a break here in five minutes? And we say hell yeah, hell no. Kind of in the middle, okay, kind of over the middle. I'm more on the top end, kind of want to do that. So by doing quick throw down decisions like this, we don't over analyze, we're doing this at Cardinal diffuse. And we did, we're making like, 2025 decisions in the morning when we first started as a team, because we're, Hey, should we buy a couch? Should his chair be blue? Should this whiteboard be, you know, magnetic or not? Right? We're a new team. So we were all trying to get consensus, and not upset anybody because we're storming, norming, we're perform. We're trying to do that. So so we decided we could just do these things, and everything. And most of the time, we're all three are up, right? So right, okay, let's just try. What's the worst thing that happen, we just go in that direction, we don't have to have a meeting and talk about the pros and the cons and this and go get public consensus and do it, let's just, let's just take a chance, let's do something. So so this is we actually have an app you can download. It has a lot of these tools and cards in it. As an example, these guys don't win in the morning. And, you know, every once in a while you're gonna get one of these and you're gonna get a rock, right? You're gonna say, wow, we're really different on this. You're like, hell no, hell yes. You too should talk. And then come back to us until we Why Why are you so adamant against it? When you say admin for Oh, because the way John said it. He made it sound like it was gonna be that way forever. And it wasn't just an expense or whatever it is, right? Or, you know, I actually have some data points on this. I understand this. And I've done this, and this is what happened. And I've been here longer. And I know that you know, before we do this, we're going to talk to facilities we're going to talk to so and so, and we need to get a little bit more consensus before we just make that. That's great. That's insight we use. So now we bring that in Say back to a team and say, Hey, listen, we just learned from Mike, you know, this is what he thinks is going to happen what he does when we vote again. And often it'll change substantially. If it can't change, then we'll do six thinking hats. So many people familiar with this. Right? Edward de Bono old stuff, right? We just reuse what works. So this is a simple book where you basically have a facilitator come in the room, they wear the blue hat, and they force us through the emotional process states we're in. So maybe Greg's isn't a bad day, and he's black hat and everything, right? We say, Okay, well, first, what are all the if we're going to do this thing? What's the worst possible thing that can happen? We all brainstorm on the worst possible outcome? What's the best possible outcome? How do we feel about this, like what feelings strike us when we talk about it? So we basically go through these emotional hats. Now we have some data up on the board. Now we can take another vote. And often this moves us and I've done this for things like, I don't code anymore. Try, but I don't and so that I hear developers arguing about technical frameworks, and they can't agree on which way we're gonna go, and they do all this mock this, let's try this. And then we, we do a sixth thinking hat on it. And all of a sudden, we come out with a direction that, you know, it wasn't the loudest person in the room. So we're trying to give everybody a voice, right in the decision making process, which, without dragging it on forever. So that's what these frameworks are meant to do is to kind of make decisions quickly as a team. And then when we don't agree, come up with a process to try to get their agreement, right, and try to get there fast, right? Because we don't want to over process over wait. We don't want delays delay decisions. If it's slowing up how we work as a leadership team are causing emotional unrest on our team, we need to resolve the conflict because as conflict lingers, it slows down the system. Right? Geez. And Craig's pisted, John, and John's business training series, right? And it's like, all this, like black cloud starts falling over everything. So we just need to get these things cleared. It's a simple framework. Another technique we do this is you're going to follow Edison's management, three to book and he adapted from somebody and then we adapted it. But basically, this is talking about how many people are familiar with RACI, responsible accountable consultant for him, right? Oh, yeah, PMI folk, right? So this is an example where, hey, we're thinking about throwing this great agile conference, okay. And we know that to do the conference, like we all voted, oh, yeah, let's do this thing, right? We all have our backlog somewhat organized. So we know what our commitments are. Now, we've just signed up for the work. So we're like, Okay, so tell Sal, this is kind of the responsible, accountable side. For me, it's I want to be involved with the location of the venue, but I want to, like, agree with someone on it, I don't want to tell you where it's going to be. I don't want just give you my opinion, I'd like to have a say in the decision making process. So what happens we put up we know for a company location, food and drink advertising, money and speakers. So now we put our names up here, and we're like, wow, okay. So often, more often than not, everybody puts their names over here. They're like, wait a second, I thought it was an awesome idea. But I didn't think I was gonna have to do all this work, right, I thought you would get the speakers you would do the food, you would do this. And I would just show up for two days and, you know, get a free lunch and hang out. And so by doing this, you could start seeing or, you know, hey, this time Bill, sign up for the food and drink and he served rice and beans. Right. And Amy gave her opinion, right? But Bill made this, you know, he was ultimately responsible, accountable. So now the next time I go to do this, I'm not going to maybe maybe next time for the food venue. Since I didn't like the way it went. I'm response removing myself over here. And taking more responsibility and accountability for it, it happens, rather than sitting back here and just judging what happened. Okay, so creating these kinds of responsibility charts, you know, work, and it makes it It's physical. So you can't hide, I can't go after the conference, a bill. Remember, you were here. And the food was in the survey said the food was horrible at that conference. And yeah, you know, maybe at some point, we could have raised our hand and said, hey, I can use a little bit of help with the food here. Because, you know, I don't have enough budget, or I didn't, you know, didn't have enough support, right, and getting it done. And so, you know, it creates this kind of, again, accountability, culture, and people will shift based on what they know. So, the last thing, so we talked about that was standard work. Now we're gonna talk about continuous improvement. Okay, so the one of the best books I listened to lately, one of my friends here in Columbus had read, listen to this, it's on Audible, or you can download for free Leanpub. It took an hour and a half. If you put it on speed, level three, I run at speed level five. So three is not too bad. But if you run out three is about an hour and a half. There's three additions to this. You can listen to the first edition and get most of it. But this guy runs a woodworking plant, and all he does is implement tools, Lean tools that improve the woodworking process. I'm not a woodworker, but it was really interesting. His whole industry is reduced around creating eliminating waste in the wood carpentry practice. So the notion he came up with these pretty crazy guy is you should improve everything by two seconds every day. So rather than have big Kaizen events, what you do is you try to improve you improve every day. So every day, I listened to Paul and we're trying this is an experiment. I mean, I wear this goofy sign. I take an iPad, and I walk around right and I asked people some questions right? On video. Okay. I give them they have 15 minutes to improve roof. It was 30. We took it back to 15. He does an hour in his shop. And we say, Okay, what's your name? What bugs you? Why Does it bug you? How did you fix it? what ways did you eliminate, and these are the forms of waste, right? Eight Deadly Sins of Lean waste, and give credit to anybody that helped you. So I don't care if you're going to go fix the way a desk is organized, I don't care, whatever you're going to do something your environment bugs you something little around you. So we want that to be part of your culture every day, we created a lean doc Kaizen channel, these are some of the things we did, whether it's post it notes, we're arguing about our overhead calculation, using Kaizen foam to organize our flippers, Randy's here, the curd coffee machine came out, we have to read a barcode. So we had to hack it to make the coffee flow better. So we have all these different improvements. And this is an example of one I'm just to give you an idea how this goes.

Hi, I'm John Stoll. And what bugs me is printing, we have a two story boat here floating in Cleveland. And we have to run downstairs to get stuff when we printed to do one big printer down there. So I'm sitting here working right. Now I gotta go get it. So follow me on my journey, and you will see the waste ensues.

You don't want to

hear that? Didn't even print, which happens a lot from printer, which is another waste that defect. But let's assume it did print, let me get it and I'll walk back upstairs. Meanwhile, I'm most likely to get distracted by somebody. So chances are I don't make it back to my desk without talking to someone and shifting what I'm focusing on, which is another form.

Okay, so fact, that took a long time, lots of opportunity to not focus on what I was focusing on. So Lisa and I did some calculations, it's about 36 seconds each way, takes about 60 steps, it's about 72 seconds, every time we have to do that. We took a poll in the office, it kind of informal, and we think we print probably about an average seven times a day, we have about seven people that make that journey seven times a day. So we're basically wasting about 58.8 minutes a day. So call it an hour, an hour per day, which is almost 251 hours a year. So Lisa and I bought a printer. And we had a printer here before but it wasn't a network printer, couldn't print color couldn't print duplex. So that's what forced us to get out of the better printer. And the crappy printer nobody wanted to use because you had to plug in with a USB stick time and energy. And so now with this thing, we can plug into the network, it's also wireless. And we're gonna save a crapload of time. So what do we say? I mean, there's a ton of stuff, defects, processing, transportation, waiting, loss of potential of employees, because we're getting distracted with conversations as we make that journey. So this was a huge improvement. And our two Secondly, improvements. So thanks to Lisa Schindler for giving me a hand. So that's a more elaborate one, we actually have data behind it. But it can be up just about anything, you can go check out our videos and see what we do. It's the notion is that it's easy to for us as leaders to pick the big improvements. But if you pick all the little things around you, and you just improve on them, it's part of your culture, it's not good enough just to see that this is bugging me is inefficient. We organize it. So we actually like anything, we have standard work. So this is our standard work. We do our daily stand up. We do our show Intel during the show until I display the two second and pretty proven videos from the day before we Bang a Gong, we have a gong Srini looks familiar. I had like these all over nationwide funds on but we Bang a Gong because we're celebrating that we've improved something just because it's fun. It's good to hit things. We declare our next improvement, right? And then we work on it and we work on it. We shoot the video, we upload it. This is where you can get the book. This is our chart. So we actually charted out on the wall. Are we making improvements? We aren't doing this at the moment, we chose to do something else improvement wise. But it was I liked the notion because rather than big Kaizen events on big process big changes. It's just like do something low. You start every day with a stand up, and then you improve something small that makes you smile and say this a little bit better than it was yesterday, even if it's small. And then you're off to a good day, right? It just kind of sets that culture that everybody can improve anything in the system. No matter what it is. Even the small things are just as important as the big things. So it's just part of the DNA. We bought this nice work cabinets, we can organize our tools and make things that are gone. Last point here is sacred cows. So often we go into cultures we start radiating out who you You're in what you are. There's always something hanging out there. Oh, yeah, but this but that or don't do this or why is he doing that? Right? There's always this back channel of things and these things, these, these things can be really big like, Okay, you Srini would never like this, like, what do we ask him? When No, he just never has? What do we have the courage to say, hey, Shireen, you know what the hell like, like, can we talk? This is really like slowing down our system. The belief is we can't try this. Most leaders operate the improve the entire system, if there's something they're doing, or some behavior that's perceived, it's, there's, there's a gap between reality and perception, right? And we need to find that in between. Right? If you're gonna create a continuous improvement culture, you got to get that in between nine times out of 10, we hear this perception, and then we go to check reality and we're like, okay, there's some truth to that. Not enough truth to create all this process, all this fear, all the stress, all this concern, and all these reasons why you can't improve. And so to do that, we implement like a token in Cleveland, we just were on a boat, we picked the manatee. So we got Boomer. And down here in Columbus, we created Bruce a sacred cow, their office happens to be next to landscaping place. So there was a cow there. But it's just a symbol saying, Do we have any sacred cows and as a leader, you have to check that, right? Because the best leaders in this room want to know their say they want to know what their what what's bogging us down. And it's often I said, perception is not reality, once thing was said one time, and it became the reason that things can't improve or reason things can't be done. So this is just like a little symbol that we use to remind people, those things exist. We actually lean dog use these, this comes from extreme programming. So CC, fr, LS, we added the l live. But basically, anytime I'm about to have a crucial conversation with somebody, I want to go and keep it going sure anybody should use ECFR or A or C, or LS. I'm saying that saying, Hey, I'm trying to improve here, it's my safe word. So don't just take attack, I'm like really going to have a crit I'm about to give you a courageous feedback, or ask you something hard. And so I don't I can't remember the manifesto, or the Lean rallies and principles. I can least remember these letters. And we know when we hear those letters that hey, don't get your hackles up, we're actually going to have a hard conversation in the best intention of moving, moving our team forward. Right. So having saved for it's part of psychology, sociology, very important, have them in your culture, use them. Don't make them just lip service. So it doesn't work. See didn't work

don't have a cursor, you'll see your cursor at

this top top left, I can't see it on my screen. Oh, I can see it over there. Okay, there.

We had just moved into the building. We've been here about a week, we were really trying to drive a new culture. From the first moment that people walked in the door and started working here we have a large culture change going on. And moving to agile practices, both from an engineering perspective and a management perspective,

with the startup effort, like what we were going through that we had a lot to accomplish in a short period of time. So how to gain consensus and then communicate that outward was, was a big challenge.

We had a perception from our teams that we weren't communicating effectively, they brought

us a lean methodology that we didn't have. So we either had the choice of creating something from scratch on our own. Or we could leverage somebody like lienzo to help us get there quickly.

And they brought a lot of great experience from the market. And two things that we could do to both engineering practices to how we get teams executing a different way, thinking about things a different way, as well as bringing in a lot of kind of visual management techniques and lean techniques.

In a world now where everybody's all about storing information electronically. They kind of went the other direction said let's put this information out in a big invisible way and show everybody what we're doing.

One of the most surprising bonuses of the engagement is we learned a lot of collaboration tools,

all the conversations that we had helped to get some priorities out on the table it helped get some problems out on the table

lean dog was really fun to work with. They have a lot of great energy. They're very transparent, honest and real people Lindahl

helped us one with the lean, agile methodology. They brought in a package solution they were able to implement immediately to they brought the experience and the techniques to convey that information and three, just the energy and creativity to pull that off and and to get excited about

so So I taught you guys everything I know. So you go do this, right, you don't need us. So sounds great, great kit. But basically, you know what we believe what is speed and lean right? Seeing your standard work so you can improve the system, creating a continual improvement things, whether it's retrospectives to second liens, Kaizen events you need to have, he didn't know what your improvement steps are, with safe words and things to do that as well. And then creating people systems creating the best people systems you can so you can uncover your skill if you can get rid of waste, continually improve, see the standard work the same way, you're much better chance to create and a high performing organization. This is actually the boat before we renovated it was a restaurant. That's a submarine, if you ever come up. And that's it. That's what we talked about. Questions? Am I out of time? Five minutes? Yes,

I remember you started at nationwide. Okay. I was thinking, Where did I come from? That's, I remember you showing us how it set up and everything. Yes, the Agile requirements.

I would say it starts off I remember you. I can put my helmet back on.

Some questions? Okay. Oh, how much do you spend every year on post it notes? Yeah. If we own stock, right, yeah. What's funny is, if you saw one of the pictures, we start with a brown paper, just go buy a roll kraft paper for 10 bucks. And we actually learned that from one of our colleagues and products, Jeff Patton. That's all he uses brown paper, because he gets painted tape and brown paper and doesn't even go to make it pretty even though he's a designer. So you can start cheap. And we spent a lot of money on magnets to and all kinds of different creative sticky clips. And

we've created a brand new innovation space, right? It's great new shiny that we just opened. Right when Windows, right? But we don't really have whiteboards. But in a meeting room, we do right on Windows. They don't want to sleep anything up. They want pristine clean. So what kinds of things can we take back to them saying, Hey, this is really the way to go.

So everybody hear that? Okay, so the question was, they have this innovation open room, but people still don't mess up the walls because they want to clean right? So that's usually facilities or HR or somebody that says, Yeah, we have to create a process is messy. Right? The Apple Store innovation doesn't happen in the Apple Store. Right? Right. That's where they showcase their products. So don't make your place look like the Apple store. It drives me nuts, I kind of sometimes I'm a clean freak, sometimes not. But when I go by my space, and I see our makers was just stuff ever I wish this was all organized and neat and tidy. But I have to respect that it's it's a creative process, and they're going to make it messy. So typically, we'll help educate facilities. So first, we'll take them on tours of other customers, and and make them comfortable with the notion that it can be really different. And then there's a couple of videos, we show them the idea of shopping cart, video, gold. And what we do is when we see that video, as part of our class two is you'll see a high performing team. And when you see a high performing team, that's what everybody wants. Right? In fact, are we yeah, we got a lot of cool toys, right? We have a lot of fun. Some of the best teams I work with aren't don't they don't have that stuff. And they're still awesome, awesome teams, because it gets stuff done. If they're shipping value building great products for their customers, they have fun. So we often we give people tours will show them the shiny places or place the fuse other places, right. But then we'll also take them to the people who are not necessary in a basement. They have a couple of windows. But that's about all they have. You know you were there two years. Yeah. Right. And that was one of the happiest teams ever saw. And they had the least, but they are shipping great product. And the product owners love them. So it didn't matter. Because they went home every day after kindergarten say we did the best damn job we could we learned the most we're the most transparent. So. But yeah, it's worked with your facilities. Sometimes you get an outside opinion saying, Hey, can you can you take a tour? And can you open their mind to usually when they see it? For some reason facilities, people have the best job security and they're like, they're forever. And so you see, and I remember back when it was like that here, back when we were a lot smaller, it was fun. It was creative, and it was energy. Now we're, you know, so So usually you have to find a way to connect with that person, psychology wise or sociology was.

comment that one of the practices that you have that at the end of the week or whatever, you go through your process and say, What do I need to clean up? That sounds like the process and you own your space.

So do retrospectives not just on your projects on your space? How's this boat working? Right? That's what we do. We make an intentional effort to say how's our how's our boat system working? How's our office system working? What can we do to make the environment we'll talk about the projects, just how we don't living on living on a boat together? Because we're all living on you know, We're all there. So we have to do it. So it's becomes pretty clear when you come into our culture that it's just it's standard work. It says on the wall Friday stand up the polka music. Don't sit down. It's like musical chairs, right? You sit down and that's bad. So we also Institute there's a concept I didn't talk about yet. But that's so one way to get norms stick is that penalize people, but in a fun way. So most humans are really bad at giving people saying bad things like hey, you're a slob. You know, you always leaving your coffee cup out, you're doing that. So we have a debt wall, like, Hey, if you leave if you leave your place messy Oh, two bucks, not because we want your two bucks. But we leave them like, Hey, did everybody agree that he just left his coffee cup there. And now I don't want to clean up after him. And I'm not gonna sit in his workspace. We have leave your cell phone unattended. If your phone phones on attend and you walk away and your wife keeps calling and is vibrating. You're like, okay, it's disrupting me. So when we do retrospectives on our space, some of the things that make it uncomfortable to work in that environment are social norms. Like what norms do we need to adhere to, we all agree that we shouldn't leave stuff around. We all agree we shouldn't leave cell phones and attended, we all agree that we should, you know, if you eat, you should wipe down your space after you eat. So then when we do our improvement things, you'll see things start popping up like hey, one of the reasons we don't clean up after we eat is we don't have access to cleaning materials. So let's make a spot on every desk where there's a clip thing of Clorox wipes on every desk. So now the barrier isn't you had to go fight there. Or the excuse can't be I didn't have any Clorox wipes, no, there's actually a round.on your table where they sit. And when that queue is empty, we're going to put another one there. So you always have cleaning supplies, there's all these little things we do in a work opening workspace environment to make it work. But having a way to pick on people's good. We did it one time we did it up in Cleveland, when I was at nationwide, and we had we built up so much debt, that we actually had to have a way to pay it down because everyone was people were earning so much money initially. So we had a pet food eating contest day, if you could eat natural, natural pet food, you could pay down your debt. It was a fun team building event that HR didn't like me for it. But we sure had fun doing it. Right. And it was just it's just you have to, you have to do fun, weird things. And, you know, sometimes we take the debt and we give it to charity, or we do a happy hour, whatever we want to do with it. But if somebody comes to me and says, Well, hey, I'm going to be late for standup every day. Here's 20 bucks. I'm just getting let's talk ECFR what's going on? Oh, well, my kids get on the bus late or I can't adjust this my great. I'm sure the team will understand that. Hey, team next retro, can we move the standup five minutes because he's got a personal situation where he has to get his kids on the bus now. All right. So all those things are the things you have to do as a servant leader to listen for? And then figure out okay, what's the countermeasure is you know, how do we talk about it? Remember, okay,

remember that HR?

So, yes?

So the question is, how do we basically keep an audit log? How do we remember what happened in the past? Most of this stuff doesn't matter. I'm not getting audited on running my company, right? In other words, what the sales funnel looks like on a given day, or are our people's improvements are going those things projects a little, maybe a little bit different, right? So Scrum teams projects lean, we'll take pictures of the wall, and we'll check them in with GitHub, we'll check them in our source code. Often pictures are actually more credible to an auditor than a software tool. Because you aren't faking it, you're taking a picture on a wall, it's got a timestamp, you put it in, and you're like, yeah, it might be a little traceability might be a little bit hard. But we're checking in with the code that we put it in. So we do, we, I typically though, I will hire an administrative person on a large scrum team. And I say 12 to 20 people, not six, seven or eight, not the normal scrum side, but I believe in larger teams because of flow and Kanban. But anyway, so yeah, we'll archives necessary, often, you know, meet with the auditor at front, here's how we work, what do we need to make you happy? Can I take a picture and check it in? Can I take a picture and email it to you like, what would I need to do to pass your requirements? It doesn't have to be in a fancy software tool. Yes.

So now a presentation most of the terms like visual management on PC do have another agenda, themes as to what's the difference between the normal agenda line? And then.

So the question was, isn't it agile and lean? So Agile is a set of values and principles? Lean has a set of values and principles, Extreme Programming does? Right? They're all good things. In fact, your company's values and principles are good thing. I like to think that Agile and Lean are extremely similar. Except I think that that agile, put more emphasis on the product owner side of things, because a lot of lean manufacturing was the manufacturing process. You go back to the history. So you know, I think I think lean, lean and agile together. What makes it work right? That's what me or at least one is because we're you have to have the notion of eliminate waste, versus going through the ceremonies and doing the cards and doing the work. So I think that Agile Scrum agile was not enough that with Kanban, Trumbo and lean thinking Lean principles, you just have to create create a continual learning environment really what I want, I don't walk into a company, a company and judge them, were you lean or are you agile, I can walk in and I can listen. And if I hear a whole bunch of people collaborating, who are happy, and talking through what they're doing, and pairing, you have a high performing team, because it's not the typing is the hard part. It's solving the problem. And if I'm talking through whether I'm writing an email or writing code or designing something, and I have bright minds collaborating to reduce waste, and get things done faster, and I don't see the blame game, I seem T shaped people flowing downstream that eliminated current straight in the system, call it agile called Lean. I don't care if it's a high performing team. So you know, I think I just like to think about high performing teams more than anything, you know, when you see it. Right. And you'll know in a second I can walk in, I don't care if you check off every practice you're doing. If I walk in and that buzz isn't in that room. It's not You're not doing the right practices. You don't have the right culture. You might be doing the practices but you don't have the culture is once you get the culture, you can't fight the culture is what what makes it work. Okay, any more questions? All right. Thank you all very much. Thank you


## LEAF - A Framework for Leaders - 2015 COHAA The Path to Agility Conference

All right, well, thanks everyone for coming. Appreciate being down here in Columbus. This is an hour and 15 minute talk. So a couple things you know is one we're gonna we are being filmed. So the cameraman wanted me to solve the glare problem I have. But uh, so please, yeah, everywhere I go, I have the same problems. And so if you ask questions, just please don't use profanity unless you want that to be public. So it's good to be here. So this is our backlog we're gonna get through. So it's on your card that we gave out to you. I think there's nine steps there. We dropped to zero but same idea. A little bit about me. So I'm actually from Pittsburgh, I grew up actually went to Ohio State, got an econ degree and CIS degree, moved back and forth all over the place. Pittsburgh, went back to Cleveland, spent a lot of time in the Columbus area. At one point, the company I was working for got acquired by nationwide, and we were the small insurance company up in Cleveland. And I had built three or four agile teams and the CEO were the stepchild. So the CIOs came up to see us. And they're like, this can't possibly work. Like you guys are having fun. And this place is weird. And who are your customers? And I said, well, they sit next to you in Columbus. And so he went to see him. And when I approached him, the first thing he said was, God, please don't make them work like it. Right. And so it was kind of a shocking moment to hear that but the CIO. So they kept sending people up to observe us. And finally, they said, Hey, listen, how would you like to help us try to change how often you know, 1000s of people work in Columbus is a great, I said, there's a lot of great people in Columbus trying to do this, but there are corporate and so mom and dad are home all day. So it's harder for them to break the rules and remove process and waste. So I spent the next six years doing that for for nationwide, part of a great agile team, building out their delivery center. And then at some point, when 2008, I decided I was going to start my own company, and went on to do that. So I can remember that doesn't change. Most people know, at least because we have a boat. So if you're up in Cleveland, you're welcome to visit us. This is a 1892 steamship. So it's like 20 years older than Titanic. One of the reasons we have a boat is when we teach organizational change. One of the benefits of working down here in Columbus, I got to hang out with a lot of people that have backgrounds in psychology, sociology, organizational development, things way beyond a computer, computer science and economics. So whenever I was gonna start my company, I wanted someplace that really was different, where we've kind of broke all the rules. So as soon as you walk in our office, he's like, really, you bought a boat, this old and now you're gonna renovate it. And it's it was it has an amazing story, it used to be twice as long, and they cut the top off and cut in half, and then they build a restaurant on it. So this was 175 person restaurant with an 80 seat bar. And then we bought it and we renovate. At the end of this, you'll see the before picture of the renovation that didn't have this top and did have boats or docks, or sea doos or any fun. So you couldn't open a window, because they were afraid that there would be odor from the water and it would ruin the restaurant atmosphere. So we gave access. Now the picture from afar some of our toys. Even in winter, when it's cold, we have fun. So this is our hockey rink out on the lake Erie, and we have a curling rink and we have an isolation tent. So you got to make the best of it. One of the best parts of coming to Columbus is sun. So always seems like it's always sunny down here was often very gray up in Cleveland. So you got to make the best of it. What do we do at lean dawg, we coach and we built software. The initial vision was 20, great people building software having fun, a very good thing. We have about 60 people and we go in and we help companies do transformations. And then we teach them how to fish and then we leave. So we don't do staff augmentation, we're proud of get turning cultures up and creating happy work environments, with with great business value delivered. When we talk about what we do this is this is the transformation side of our business. So we coach at the team level, the PMO level and the executive level. This talk is all about how we coach at the executive level. It's not a salesperson, this is something that it's super simple, like most of the stuff we do in Agile. So there should be some things you should be able to pull out of here that you can go back and immediately practice at least that's my goal today is to make sure you can go back and try something and get value out of this. So about this talk. So when I started lean dog, first of all, I had never consulted in my life to start a consulting company mistake. But when I did that, I was determined how can I run my company Lean and Agile? You know, it's one thing to build software products and teams and features and product owners and get requirements and all that. We solve that problem. We've been doing it. It was my job to do that. But now it's like, okay, how do I actually work as a leadership team and do this? So it was hard. It's it's been a six year journey to try to forget to do this. So this is just the current state of this. In 2008. I had a talk about agile from the top down. And it was the beginnings of this. It was basically my study, I was speaking on it trying to get feedback because I was like, Well, how are you? Is anybody else trying to do this? Like tell me how you're running this leadership team level. How many people in here are leaders or managers? Okay, so hopefully, if you get something out of stock and you use it, please tell me because it's, I don't get an opportunity to work with many companies are trying to do it to this extreme. And so if you don't want to, I can learn from you. And so in your in, perhaps, you know, in advance how we do this. So we've, we the interesting thing that happened is about two years ago customers started coming to the boat to visit us and check us out. And they see they come upstairs and and see how we run the company, they see all these walls and all all these techniques I show you are things we do every day. And when they saw it, they're like, Hey, can you come back and help us do it. And our goal wasn't to create a new product, our goal was just to try to run a company and businesses in a lean and agile fashion. So we've since then have been engaged to do eight of these. We spent down in Columbus, Cardinal Health has been six weeks down here at the fuse, great group of people great leadership team, and we help them do theirs. And we've done a bunch of Palo Alto and all over the place. But we only practice this eight times. And every time we do it is changing substantially because we're finally applying it outside leaned on context, into your context. And we're learning a heck of a lot more as we do it. Okay, so what types of people this is interesting to us, too, because we can expect this. There's certain situations where people want to adopt this, this framework, I call it a framework, it's just a collection of our practices, our best practices. But, you know, basically, sometimes the the situation is teams are going Agile, and these actions aren't just kind of like you're the parent. And it's a shadow of a leader, right, and I kind of telling you to make your bed, clean your room, you know, go back to kindergarten work and open workspace, put your homework on the wall, but I'm not willing to do that as a leader, right? It's a double standard. So often, when we go in, we engage the customer says, Great, we're helping the delivery team, or your executives willing to act the same way, and follow the same values and principles as your team's right. Another scenario is startup to set up. So you know, startup companies get going, they need to, if things start getting bigger, they start getting successful, and they need to establish some cadence to how they work and how they practice. In other words, and same same, we set up the scale, sometimes the world that you're leading and manage, it gets too big that you can't keep tabs of it, right, there's lots of moving parts on a leadership team of what you're responsible for. So at some point, you can't and lean thinking you can't see the whole, right, you can't see everything that's going on. But you have to have some level of autonomy and control and trust. And so a lot of times it's a scalability issue where I go, so let me scale, sometimes a new CIO or C level person coming to organization, they take the job, they go through all the interviews, they really don't know what they're getting into, until they walk through that door and start understanding understanding the system. So we've been asked for some people who are doing executive searches, hey, why don't you come in and do this executive thing, kind of paint the walls, paint the world and create this framework, and then we're interviewing people will actually walk the CIOs or leaders around there in the interview process, so they can better understand what it is they're going to be asked to lead and what they're asked to manage. Sometimes, mergers and acquisitions are obvious, because now you're taking two leadership teams, you got to clasp them together, and you got to come out as one, right? So they're both now you got to hold companies, right at leadership, they're leading different things, different ways, different styles. So they need to kind of figure out a common way to to manage and work together. And then two of those three of those eight, were actually innovation studios where, hey, we need to put innovation. So we're going to buy crazy building, we're going to put a bunch of cool people in there that have the right attitude and aptitude. And we're going to try to innovate, and we're going to take shots, things, I'll show you some of that.

Okay. So the first step to changing is kind of understanding change. And this is one of the coolest things I learned from working with people outside of my craft. How many people have seen Rogers innovation? adoption curve? Right? So we love to use the word innovation, right? Sexy, it's cool. But really what innovation means if you read it, it's an idea of practice, or an object that's perceived as new. Okay? And this goes back to sociology, really old case studies of monkeys on islands eating fruit, and they introduce a new fruit. And, you know, how long does it take for the colony to adopt if that's acceptable for food? There's a whole bunch of case studies if you if you Google that and read behind, and it just makes sense in any society. So the the notion is that there's a certain there's always, in most organizations, like 2.5% of people are innovators. Then you have early adopters, early majority, late majority and laggards. So it's often daunting when you go through change, cuz you're like, I can't imagine my company is so big, I can't imagine changing the whole company. Well, here's how it works. You don't have to change a whole company, you get the innovators and early adopters on board first, then you get the early majority. And then once you get the early majority, they'll start following and you want to lose these people. Right? Right. And that's through accountability culture. So we tell people we come in, it's like, well, we just need to get you to 20% You'll get to that tipping point. And then then sociology will kick in. And all these people are started adapting. Okay, that's true with every everything that you do. Once you get over a certain point, it starts you know, people start following it and say, wow, it is a better way and I didn't want to be first. But, but that's a better way of working and people will do it. So it's very, very easy concept. Another important thing to understand is how People go about change. So when you gotta change, first you have to be aware, something's new or different, then you have to consider it, then you have to investigate it, then you pilot, then you adopt it, say, this is how I work, and then you adapt it to what works for you. Okay? So if you look at it that way, right? That's the curve. So anytime you're gonna just change, you don't care if you're the person who's already here, you have to recognize everybody else around you is back here, or a lot of them, right? So you have to bring everybody up this curve together, right? And not assume that your knowledge, you know, is their knowledge, okay? And their willingness to change because you have kind of access, what class they're in. And then you have to try to begin to move along. So I tell people, if you're gonna invest in going Agile, or you know, make sure you invest in the right people, the people on the front of the curve, don't take your late majority and your laggards and say, Hey, let's change them. First. You're fighting really an uphill battle? Right? At that point, you're starting at the wrong end. Okay. So how do we do this? So we get engaged to help manage a team, we we've written a book, there's like 60 practices in here. From lean Kanban sociologie servant leadership, it's our vocabulary. Lean dog is what we coach on. It's not expected, you do all 60. But it's our vocabulary. So the first thing we need to do with a leadership team or executive team, and like I said, if you're on that leadership team, and you're the one agile evangelists for Lean evangelists, your peers probably aren't right, there's probably a mix of first thing you need to do is give them respect, say, let's establish a vocabulary. We do this in eight hours, sometimes we do four hours, we visit a couple of customers do four hours, then then we then we do a planning game. But nonetheless, you need to establish your vocabulary, whether it's our book or your book, it doesn't matter. But you all have to agree with that means if you if you don't have the contents of our guide, but this isn't a chapter book, it's a bunch of bullet points. Right? Here's the definition. And here's here's a, if I was gonna have a conversation with you about retrospective stand ups, Kanban, anything, these are the bullet points I would discuss with you. And now we can say so what you call a stand up is what I call a stand up, you call retro. So we need to get that right. Most really important to any society is vocabulary, right? One word, said the wrong way, right can do a lot of damage. So it's no different when you're trying to institute change, you need to identify your vocabulary first. So we do this with the executives, right. And it's eight hours, and it's fast. So they usually, they can tolerate it because you have to keep their attention span. We come out of there explaining them to Lean principles, agile practices, and systems thinking, okay, that those are the three kind of principles and they kind of know their teams are doing it, but they don't know how they how they can do this, right. And that's what we're trying to get into do. I talk really fast, you can tell. So just going too fast, just stop me. And I can repeat myself. So this is a example we did, we did training down here at Cardinal in the room. And a couple key concepts that need to come out of there with is stand ups, retrospectives. Kanban. Because Kanban teaches you limits and whip and constraints and flow. And there's a lot to be studied. Even a nationwide I think we're okay at Scrum. It wasn't until we introduced Lean thinking that we really started getting to the next level. And so the nice thing about Lean and executives is a lot of have MBAs. And they heard about Lean and Toyota way. So lean is often a better word in that culture, they use an agile. So sometimes we have agile movements. And we have that's why this is lean executive. Right? Because that you know that they can they can explain lean to their business partners better. We also teach them what servant leadership really means. And we kind of deep dive into this. Because often on leadership team, you have different leadership styles. And it's like having two fathers and to mothers, right? You got different different ways of everything. And so it's very confusing. So often, we have to kind of assess, hey, do we have command and control? Or is everybody here want to be a servant leader? Right? Because, you know, we can't, we can't kind of play both ways. And sometimes there's laggards right at every level, every team, even at the at the leadership level. And so we really emphasize these and we go through every one of these in detail to make sure they actually understand what that means. It's not just the word. Right? They actually know what that means. I have another talk that I do, where we actually map all the things we do at lean knock back to the servant leadership. So what practices uphold which pillars? And then how do we make sure we're upholding those so it's just not a word, but that's a that's a very important concept. So the goal was, after the out eight hours, we've, we've taught them the basics of what we need them to practice, they kind of understand the big vocabulary that their delivery teams are using, right, but they may never touch it, at least they now you know, it's respectful for you to know what your teams are doing at this level. So you know, at least those basics of the vocabulary. And if you forget what ATDD is, you can open up your book and say, Okay, that's right. That's what this does for us, and that's how that helps quality, etc. So we're gonna have to set the foundation. So now what we've done is we set awareness, right, we set consideration because we're talking obviously during this day, and we're saying hey, what practices out there do you like? And by the way, these are the ones we're going to coach you on each one's going to implement, and and hopefully your leadership team mostly on the left side of that bell curve. So, so you can go pretty fast into this and they adopt pretty quickly. This is a collaboration aid, this is a really important tool for us. You're going to pelo from the Netherlands came and taught a management three Dotto class at our boat. And he had taken what was called delegation something before it before that it was something else. So it's been around for a long time. And we were good at it of renaming things and throwing acronyms on him. But we didn't like the word delegation. We liked it more than word collaboration. That's really what it's about. So we, we modified it. So how many people are familiar with RACI? Right? Awesome. Awesome. Okay. So, so, yeah, I used to be that managers, I had to do all the racy stuff, and I had responsible accountable consultant forum, right. So PMI project management is to, and you felt these charts, right. And I never knew how to apply that. Right. It was just something I had to do. And so we, when we saw this with, I think that we think this is a better way, because it makes it clear. So basically, on the on, the one is tell it's like, Hey, listen, I'm gonna take accountability, I'm gonna do this. So. So the RA the responsible and accountable is one, two, and three, four is agreed, right? So here's my responsibility, but I'm going to try to get buy in from others. I want your insight, but I'm gonna decide how we work. I want to work together and solve this problem with you. On the other side, that's pairing, this is the consultant form side. So advise means, Alright, I'm gonna get I'm gonna give you the insight. And then you can, you're free to make the decisions because you're responsible. So I'll tell you everything I know about it. But you make the call. Okay. I'm truly just consulting and informing you. I'm not going to tell you what to do. Right? I don't have a right to do that. Inquire same thing like, Hey, I just want to understand what the data behind it so I can support you. So when he said, Why did you do that with a project? Oh, yeah, that's right. You know, Dan told me all about it. And this is why and I got his back. And we empowered him to do this. He's responsible and accountable, we'll see if it works or not. So it's important that to do that delegate means I kind of see it when I see it. Right? I don't want to know about it. Don't email me, don't include me just whenever it happens, it happens. And I'm sure it'll come out great. Because that can really give you a complete delegation, right, and autonomy and control. So this is how we this is what we use. The joker is kind of the the bullshit card. Right? So so that's just for fun. So it's kind of like, hey, you know, you told me to make a decision, or run with a project or do something and then it last minute you swooped in, like a seagull and you tried to change everything, right? Bullshit, here's the Joker card. Right. And I rarely see people use it. But but the notions there that, you know, we always have to refer back to we agreed to this vocabulary as a leadership team. So courage, communication, feedback, respect, simplicity, XP values, right? That that the respect part is that we have to be able to call each other out whenever they're swooping from that side to this side. And that's often what happens, right? That's a lot of the contention that happens in leadership is, is understanding that autonomy control. It's easy to say it, but it's really hard to practice it. So let me show you how we do it. So this is how we run leadec. So we sell coaching training, we have our studio development work, we count me as we love lots more than this, but it had to fit on the screen.

So we went and signed up for the work, right? So coaching Mike and I, right, we're kind of running the coaching practice, we pair with Greg and Matt taxies, as well on this, but But ultimately, him and I are responsible and accountable. Okay, so what happens when you fill out these charts? If you see a pattern, and this changes, right, and that's one of the hardest thing to do, because leadership always changes, right? You're back, I'll go into backlog, how we manage backlog, but it's always changing. So there's times where I can be over here, and they'll Hey, I gotta go out to India or Palo Alto for six weeks. Okay, guess what? I gotta I gotta move myself over here now. Right? It make that clear that I can't be managing the backlog for coaching. Because right now, I need to go off and do this. So it's just priorities are always shifting. Right? We have to be very honest about it. Otherwise, we just start dropping balls, right? And it's not clear. So while this looks like a static thing, if you come to the boat, they're actually post it notes, right. And when we do our planning game, we actually talk about shiftiness, around how the leaders lead because they're good at solving problems and removing roadblocks, right. People love startups, they love being on leadership teams. Moving around in your job to different responsibilities is fun. Okay, most people like that. But a lot of time, just like we lock in roles on delivery team, we lock in roles on a leadership team. And if you're always marketing, you're always marketing. If you're always this, we know that some of the best companies in the world they they groom their CO CEOs, by making them go across all these different decisions, because leadership is leadership. Right? You can handle the domain space. So we tried to do that too. We try to mix up who's who's over on the racy side. Right? And then we and we swap it out. So it keeps it fun for us as leaders and it's not like you're locked into a job title. We don't like job titles, right? We're just part of the leadership team. And our role for the day or the week can change based on our demands, and I'll show you how we do planning to get there. Okay, this is a really critical piece. It's called the big visual room. So one of the key concepts of information rate theatres is, again, vocabulary is whole is all about, it's all about communication. A lot of times, I gotta point that way. We all think we're on the same page, right? How many people have seen this, this picture has been around for ages old thought works diagram. So you know, as soon as you make things physical, and we put our mental models on the table, we can really realize, wow, we're just off by a little bit. But it was an important little bit, it can lead to a lot of mistrust, miscommunication, and waste. So once we're on the same page, then we can start converging, right, and get on the same page for real. So making things physical, that's how we operate as humans, when it's a lot easier idea, just the physical thing, that is a mental thing. And so we really big on that. So once we get that, that general consensus, now we can move forward. So when we take on when these cases, we go in, sometimes with four to six coaches, for anywhere from two to six weeks. And the first thing we do is we create a backlog. We can say, wow, wouldn't it be great if you had a huge room, we this is our big visual room. And we have all these walls and that wall there says, okay, you know, what's this company about? Who are our customers? Who are our products? You know, what's our technical debt? What are assets, these are just some of the walls, I think the one we did down here we built 27, or 28. Walls, down at the fuse. Yeah. And I didn't want to California we did 48. Okay, and all these walls aren't gonna stick around. But the goal was to get everybody on the same page, once you're on the same page, then we're like, okay, we need more walls. So we're managing the loss. And now let's make these walls pretty. So we're bringing UX person in to things that are pretty stagnant, like architecture and things like they'll change a lot, we'll downsize those and make the small concise, so we can free up wall space. The whole goal of this is to keep it light, and get on the same page. So we go in with a team, we create the backlog. So this was a leadership team, a big leadership team, we went through and we said, which walls we're going to create, who's responsible and accountable, right? For which walls which functions. And then we broke, and we went off, went off, and we put one or two coaches with each Exec. And we went off and we started, and we don't know anything, because we're new. Like, okay, let's paint your world on this wall. What does finance mean? What does you know? How are you structured? You know, what your application assets? Who are your customers? What are their personas? What are your? What are your program goals? What are your project goals? You know, how do you manage requests? Let's map your value stream. How do you go from intake, right to delivery to production? How do you measure business value? What are your key performance indicators? So we build out all these walls, and it's pretty, it's pretty fun to do. It's so simple to do. But it's so fun to do. Because you realize that people say, wow, I've learned so much about this. And now, when you hire people to come into your company, you walk the walls. So in the interview process, I'm gonna show you my next leader, my next developer, next year, next person, I don't care, we take him into the building, and we say, Okay, well, let's start here. It's where the tour starts. This is who we are, as customers we serve. These are our market data. These are our program goals and objectives for the years, these, how we structure these are the application assets, our technology stack, our demand funnel, these are innovation projects. Oh, and this is a team you're fitting in, and you're working on this project and this code base. Right? So it's a walking tour that anybody in your company can can tell, right? The problem is a leader, you have all this knowledge in your head, because you're managing all these different components. But but seeing the whole the people working for you don't see all that. And people good people will do the right thing, if they understand the whole system. Right? If it looks like oh, we're just changing priorities at the top and their ivory tower, verse, Oh, no, we're gonna change this and see how it impacts around the room. Right? People don't mind change, as long as they can understand how it connects, oh, we just had a new market opportunity or an acquisition or whatever it is, when we update the walls and tell that story, right? Everybody's connected to the whole picture. And we're taking the mystery out of what you lead, right? Because you're worried about all these things. You have people in your teams managing all these things. But you're sitting, if you're sitting in an office behind your computer, nobody sees that. Right? They don't get any respect for your backlog and what you're managing. And so so it's really fun to do. Pretty easy to do. We, we believe that every company has to manage three different delights, okay? You have to have customer delight. So your customers happy with your product, or business delight doesn't make business sense to do the work, right? And are your people happy? So in this case, we actually mapped all the walls back to which the lights were managing. And you can see in this case, we only had like two and a half for customer delight. So right away is why we need we need more more information radiators on our customers really happy with our products and solutions. How are we going to manage that? So this is just one example. But we manage lean dog to these delights and every company we coach and we say okay, how do we make sure it's one thing to get products out. But if you lose sight of any one of these things, you're not running a really good culture, right? You're doing the wrong things for the business. If your people aren't happy for customers are happy, you're gonna fail. So we kind of roll those up. This is a different customer company alignment. Well. I'll just show you some some. This is a in the PMO. This is shots on goal. So these are innovation projects. So the idea was we're really good at doing delivery but we never get to do new innovative stuff. So we did more of a lean startup approach for those with hypothesis and all that. And then they took shots on goal. If you see a little goalies ahead there since changed, right all these walls, if these walls aren't changing, they aren't adding value, right? Because the whole world is changing, right? If something was really static, or you quit using the wall, or it just it was just to get on the same page, and let's just freeze it, make it pretty. Don't check it into SharePoint, don't put in a wiki put up where you can't reach it put up on the wall and keep it up there. You can't see it here. But every every wall has a critical component, right? It has it has a description of the purpose of the wall and the intention behind it. And it usually has the pictures of the people who are responsible for the wall. So if I walk up this wall, and I don't get it, or I want to I, you know, I can say oh, i Who do I need to track down to understand this? Okay. This was a wall to understand the health of products, right? So they're mentioned 12 different products. This is all product ownership, KPIs, which ones are going up? Which ones are going down? Which ones are going flat? How are we measuring them? How are we measuring delight for each of these products? Right? So again, these are completely different now, but, but it was a good start. It was the first time we really had this view that people could walk up and digest. And that's the beauty of information radiators, right, is that anybody in your team and your organization should be able to walk up if you go to lean dog, you can see how much money we have in our bank account. Right? It's all on the wall. There's no it's 100% transparency. And so that what you'll find is even your developers and people here, they'll take a break, and they'll go up and they'll walk upstairs, we have our keg upstairs with a bar, right? And so it's great because we have our leadership over the top of the boat and our delivery design people down on the first floor of the boat and but what happy hour, what are they do they walk around with a beer and they check out the walls. And we talk? Right? Beer drives me nuts. That's a good attractant for walls. So just make sure it's good beer. And then, yeah, here's more walls. Here's key performance indicators work in progress. This here is a value stream map of a workflow process. This is our boat. So this is the corner of our boat. You can see all of our walls. Well, I'm trying to use the laser thing. I don't usually use this, but we're here. So you can see we have walls here that I'll show you that detail later. They're always popping up, they're always changing on Friday. So we on Friday, after our stand up, we all clean for 15 minutes, we put on polka music, because noise most people, and it's kind of like musical chairs. And for 15 minutes, you have to go around and clean up your boat because we're all adults. And we have to put stuff away. So we come back Monday, our house is cleaner than we left it right. And we at that point, look at our walls. And we talked about what walls we should get rid of which ones were just popped up for a conversation to get on the same page. And which ones to stay up. Right. And often we rearrange walls to like a lot, it makes more sense to move this wall over there. And so we don't have enough we have, you know, been on the lake, we put a lot of windows in, which is great. And then we covered with post it notes. And now we can't see. So yeah, it's kind of funny.

This is a spending wall that we use. So money is a funny thing, right? Everybody wants to spend it every once more, right. And so, you know, I'm the dad and serve as a hey, can we get this? Can we get this? Can I speak at this conference? Can I buy this. So we created a simple wall and you come over and you if you want to buy something, you put it on here you have to do your analysis, or your proposal, we have a weekly spending cadence where everybody that wants to spend stands around, it's right next to our financial wall. These are our KPI KPIs or bank account or billing rate or accounts receivable, all the things that my finance person keeps an eye on all her dials, right. And then these are what we use beer mugs with beer, but these are indicators to our goals and whether we're filling the mug or not. And so but this is transparency, it's not when people come up and say, Hey, I'd love to buy a cool 3d printer and laser cut plasma machine for design studio and, and we've added $3,000. And I can say I can say no, we're gonna say okay, well, let's put this up with everybody else who wants their money. We have budgets, and we have goals. And you know, how are we looking with receivables? How are we looking with, you know, sales forecast and all these things? And then they understand that decision. It's not saying no, they're part of the decision making process with this is not a yes or no, right? Go ask Mom, go ask the next person and try to find budget for it. They understand why or we can or can't do things like oh, well, we chose to do this and we're going as a team, we're gonna choose to spend money on this instead of this. And this is why it ties back to this goal for our company. Right? It completely changes how you work. Any questions about that? Three steps in talking too fast. Yeah. Yep. Yeah.

Yep. So good question. The question was, what about distributed teams, right, large corporations, y'all can't be in the same spot with one big visual room. So one of the things when you manage gotta manage to the majority. So often, we'll put a lot of processing place or technology in place to handle that 10% 20% offset. So reality there is going to be a hub, right somewhere. And we say, well, we're going to, we're going to do what works for us the best. And then now since you're the minority, we're gonna have to figure out how to acquiesce and support you. But just because you're remote doesn't mean I'm put everything in a tool to make 20, you know, spend a lot of money for 80% of us. So 20% of us feel included, we have an honest conversation and say, Hey, you remote, how do we want to do this, we actually have a double robot, right that we can drive like a Segway with an iPad on it around the walls, it doesn't work real well for the clarity. But But bottom line is we have people remote, you have to have a communication plan period, right as a leader. So this is where you quarterback from what you communicate out, you can do your slide your slide shares, and all that and disseminate the information, there's no way you you don't need to share 100% of information. That's not the goal of this room, the goal was to get the leadership team on the same page, it might mean the leader has to fly in and walk those walls, it might mean that, hey, as a leader, I'm responsible and accountable for three walls. So I need to figure out a way to work pair with you to get your wall updated, I'm gonna have an administer, I'm gonna keep up with the same wall here, my take a picture and send it to an administrative person who update the wall on a weekly basis with the changes. So there's lots of ways you can do it. Again, a lot, we often were really good because we're analytical, we manage the exception. And it's like, just you know, you have to have the honest conversation. If you aren't at, you know, in the home office, there's no way you could ever have as much insight. And when I put it in a tour, don't put in the tool. Yeah, so it's, uh, you know, we do our company meetings. You know, I have 67 people on 27 on the boat, and they all can't fly in right for the meeting. So we do it, we do the best we can of pulling off the critical elements, and then running through a slide deck, right, we do a thing called extreme meeting, we take our whole company, every three or four months completely out of the client will go do something outdoors, and fun and rock, climb, whatever. And when we do that, we actually we really spend time walking the walls before we do that. So we make certain points. There's different communication plans for different levels. There's no easy solution. But yeah, it's hard, your mind can shift so fast. That's why the paper works. Right? The cost is cheap, and things are always changing. Good question. Any other questions? Okay. All right. So how do you make decisions fast, right? Or collaboratively? How many people have heard of fist to five? Awesome. Yes, that actually helps. So, yeah. So first of five, you know, often as humans, we can really belabor a decision because we want 100% buy in, right? So we're sitting there talking about whether we should do something. And you know, everybody's keep, we all keep talking, because I think you're 80% there, I think you're 90% there, but I want you to be 100%. So we spend a lot of time spinning cycles. Reality is we're all way over the majority that we should do this. So if we just do a quick vote. So we will, we will say if we're talking about something was Hey, 55, right? It's pretty simple. Five means Hey, I'm all for it. That means hell, no, I'm going to undermine it. Right? Threes, I'm kind of in the middle. I don't care either way, right. And then four. And so so we do these voting a lot just to get to make quick decisions. Because we know that if we're good leadership team, we're going to do it. And then we're going to learn from it. And then we can adapt. Right? So what's the word? If we fail, we learned something. So that's okay. And so we were doing this for a couple teams. And every morning after stand up, they were having fist to five, they just called fist the five meeting, Hey, I gotta make five decisions today. I feel like something I want to buy these chairs for the developers already, you know, these are my options. I'm going to pick this 155 Good. We're making an average of 1015 10 or 15 decisions and like 10 or 15 minutes, right? If it takes more than a minute for you guys to collectively say whether we should or not. Okay, now we should talk about it. So let's say we do a fist to five, right? And it's like Murphy's Law. Your name tags are backwards. But Beverly. Alright, thank you. So if we don't agree or summon batteries, like hell, no, I won't go. You know, what we'll see. Okay, well, we better talk about this. Let's have a meeting. And that's 5520. And let's apply six thinking hats. How many people have seen this? Good. Yeah. Edward de Bono. 1964. Right there 68 Or something crazy. So great book, but so often was okay. Wow, that didn't go so well. You know, Beverly was really against it. Trilene was a little it was a little bit, you know, if you want it to so we're going to have a six Nikki hat meeting about this topic, who wants to be in it? Right. And so that's it, you schedule a little meeting. And then we apply these hats. So the way it is the blue person with a blue hat, and you can buy cool hats and make this fun, right and wear the colored hats. But the problem is that you have to actually take yourself through these different states. So you say alright, I'm the facilitator. Let's put on the Red Hat. So the Red Hat, we're going to talk about this. We're talking about throwing a path to agility conference, right? And the Red Hat is okay, emotional. How do you feel about this? Right? You have to justify or explain it, but just tell me how you feel about it. Yeah, I think it's nice, you know, just just get your feelings on the table. Okay, now we're gonna take the red hat off. We're gonna put the yellow hat on. What's the best pod? We're all the positive aspects if we if we ran this conference, right? What are all the creative aspects? What are all the facts? Just the facts? Wow, there's going to be how many people are 700? Something like that? A lot. Anyways, lots of people here, it's marketing, blah, blah. So when you start getting us all at the table that important is is is not to be Blackhat everything the person, right, if everybody Oh, it was Blackhat, and this from the get go, we're forcing her to go through these different emotional states. And, and the facilitators job is like, as soon as you start black hat and sudden we're like, whoa, we aren't on the black hat yet. We're just talking about the facts. Right? Not all the things can be bad about this, but just the facts at this point. It's amazing how simple this works, and how easy it is, and, and how much how often it really, really works. I've seen like developers argue about frameworks for weeks, and like, hey, let's do six thinking hats on this framework, or is this framework and they come out of it, and, and the, the person who was perceived as Blackhat actually got their solution, because when they all looked at it, through all these different lenses, they actually all came to a different conclusion. And he came to it together. So that this is how we kind of resolve conflict. We talked through this, and a facilitator at the end of the day, at the end of this, we take another vote, right, and then we decide what we're going to do. So collaboration, eight, we used it to talk about autonomy and control earlier, right, who's responsible, accountable consulted forum, we also use it to make decisions. So let's say we're talking about throwing the super mega conference ramaa. Right. And what we do is we took post it notes, and we put them across the top right over here, we said, Okay, well, what are the epics? What's involved with throwing a conference? Well, we need to get a location, we need to get food and drink, we need advertising, we need some money, we need to get speakers and sessions, right, there's probably all these big elements. Because often we're really good at over committing, right? And it's like, I always do this conference. But wait, I'm consulting. And for me, you guys have to do all the hard work. I was I was 55. But that didn't mean I wanted to do anything. Right? I just wanted to sit back and watch and go to the happy hour afterwards. So that's what we do. We start putting our names we start signing up for the work. Right? So now we're looking at okay, do we have enough people that are responsible and accountable? Say there's a risk here? Right bills, really cares about food and drink? Probably can't do it himself. Right for the whole conference? Amy's over here, she just wants to inquire there's no interest in the food. So where are we in addition, maybe we don't do this, right? Because we don't have bad food. So it really helps you look at look at who was going to take responsibility, accountability. And then if you execute this conference, and you get done, and then you do your retrospective, right? And you talk about the improve, you'll learn something and say, Oh crap, we let we all voted. And we say yeah, Bill's got the food, he makes a great pig roast and yada, yada, right? And then we ran out of food, nothing worked, right? Well, I had a lot of respect and trust for Bill. But the next time we do a conference, I'm going to remember this. And I'm gonna have to jump up, if I didn't like the outcome, I'm gonna have to actually get involved and pair with Bill or work with Bill so that we can pull off the food to make it better last time, right. So again, really simple to do. We do it all the time. And you amazing how many things we don't do, because we took the time to do this little exercise. And we saw how we're just adding something like that we aren't, we don't have all the right passion around this to actually execute on or we don't have the right skills on our team to do this. We were thinking about opening a new office in the West, and we did this on the on the West Coast office. And we we learned, right, wow. Okay, how many people are willing to travel out west all the time and do this and that we kind of broke it down and, and we allow sounded fun to do. Right? We didn't have the passion or the ability to do it to execute on it, we'd have the right people on the team to cover all the bases to actually execute that. Okay, questions? Let me don't want timewise. Okay, this is the most complicated part of this is your backlog. So how do you guys manage your backlog today? As leaders, right? Or anybody personal backlog doesn't matter, right?

If we're going to truly create an eight, if you have an Agile team, all your works up on the wall, your cars, your product owners everything, you know, right? How do leaders do that? Right? Because your backlog is kind of in your self control. Right? You are the product owner in a sense of your domain. You can create work, you can delete work, you can create work for other people, right? And so it really becomes complicated. And it's it's way different than doing software projects. So this has been the hardest problem. Like I said, I don't even have this one solved, or partially, we have a partially solved but it's really really hard practice to do is to do contain this. So I'm gonna spend a good bit of time kind of showing you how we do it. And I hope some of you guys try it and then tell me how you can make it work better. So it's hard for me as a leader, it's really easy for me to walk in on President use my title, President CEO, so Hey, Mike, here's five things for you to do. Here's three things for you to do two things for you to do. That's really easy, right? I'm gonna get frustrated because Mike's got got a lot on his plate, but I often don't know what Mike is on my plate. So how do I know if what I asked him to do is more important than what he is? already doing? Right? It's a basic question is what we do when we build software, right? We put the highest value things first. But sometimes a high value thing first for us is just beating down our inbox. Right and going to meetings. Right, right. And that's the reality of how our ecosystem works. So we really have to work hard not to fight this big inbox war, and not to go to too many meetings, right? So this is how we do it. So this is how we break up the different types of backlog. So I have lots of meetings, I like, nice, I'm not corporate, so I don't have as many as the most corporate people here, right. But I have like, you know, two or three meetings a day, which that's two or three hours I made our day, that's almost gets to almost half my capacity. So how do I get my other work done? Right? When I have so many means to go to. I have my personal things, right, I'm still I still got wife, kids, dogs and stuff going on, that I have to deal with. And things are on my mind about before after work that I have to manage and track somewhere. And then we have projects that I'm involved in, right. So I signed up to run that conference ramaa, right, or whatever it is, or, or lead to the west office or something like that. And then I have, you know, my department, okay, so ultimately as a, as a presents EEOC facing lien dog, so I have some obligations there that I need to get out and do things. So in my role that that just required me. So first thing to do is get our backlog in the one system. Okay? Because just like a software project, what do you do, right? You create your backlog, you look at it, you group it, you create MVPs, you create product releases, and you actually organize your backlog. It's really hard to do it when your backlog is your texts on your phone, your email, your voicemails, your right, your project tracking systems, all this stuff, your backlog is not in one system is completely scattered. So how many people were familiar with getting things done? Most Yeah. So in other books, so that the notion of getting things done is you have to do something, and that means it's done, you defer it, which means I'm just deferring it to my personal backlog, right, my or my project backlog or you know, one of these backlogs I'm shoving it off to do later. Often, it's in my inbox, right, that's my reminder, I get to do something about that it's hanging around in my inbox, I need to delegate it, meaning I give it to somebody else. And that case, when I delegate it, sometimes I delegate it, and I delegate it on that on the collaboration, HRT and it's just a pure delegate. Right? Sometimes I'm a six, sometimes I'm a five, which means I want to be informed, right? So even though I delegated it to bury all you have your name tags around, okay, they've got a pic on rich. Alright, so rich, something I gave it to rich, but I also signed up, I kind of, I'm kind of like a five or six on this. So I know there's going to be some of my work to actually stay at a five or six, because the seven eyes give it to you walk away, but I have, but I might I know that we're gonna have to talk to me, I'm gonna have to give my insight and we have to learn about his work. Right? So that is a deferred backlog. Right? If I'm not a seven, then I'm involved, right? So there's some cost to me to actually keep an eye on that card that Rich's playing, right? So delegation is really easy to do. And we all often all over delegate, right? And that and that creates chaos. Because delegation without autonomy and control, just create, like I said, it creates work for me, I just never really get rid of it. I gave it to the six or five or four level, so I have to stay involved. And then there's delete, right? If there's noise delete. So this is kind of hard. We use a tool called Trello. How many people know about Trello? Yeah, pretty awesome little tool. So we create a personal Trello board. So there's John's board, there's Mike's board is Matt's board, we all have a board. It's all visible to everybody on our leadership team. Okay. We generate a list in Trello, called Inbox Zero backlog. We go into there we created you can go into Trello and say, Hey, generate an email list for inbox zero. And it gives you a nice URL, slap that into your contact list. Right now, when I go through my inbox, and I want to get my backlog there. All I do is forward all those emails to Trello. John Trello, John Trello Trello Mike Trello. Matt. Right. And everybody stood up. So we're, it's all popping in our inbox here. So all the new work, the incoming work is popping in there. It's not an email anymore. Right? Our goal is, and then we'll show you I'll show you exactly how you do this, I'll show you the details. Because again, my my inspiration do this is to also learn from you guys, if somebody can figure out a better way, it takes a lot of time to do this. I mean, we our goal was that by stand up every morning, at 830. We all have inbox zero. So I'll show you we have a whiteboard and our names across the top and Monday through Friday. And on the left, we actually look at the week, and we have little stars. And if you hit Inbox Zero, you put a star up, that means you've done your job. We've all agreed that we're all going to try to do the same personal time management stuff. Right, which is again, hard to do, because everybody struggles with the issue of personal management, right? But getting a team to say wow, we're all going to do it the same way. Right. Is it really challenging because your personal preference I like to keep lists I'd like to keep posting it. It's I keep it in tasks or you know, all these different apps you do get to say, Well, if we can't share our back clog, and we can't be completely transparent across ourselves and what we're doing, then we can't truly prioritize value in the right order, okay? Because I just don't know what's on your plate. And I need to know what's on your plate to be respectful for you. Okay, so this is my Trello board. That's me and one of my daughters holding it, that's a fishtail. If you're wondering what the heck that is. Get that so you can focus on the slide. So here's the Inbox Zero. Here's some personal things I'm working on. Here's, I own the boat with another guy, and we rent our companies. So this is when I meet with him. My next meeting, this is a backlog of things we need to talk about. This is product development. These are new ideas, we're working on lean dogs, so you got to keep moving forward. So I come with a lot of weird ideas. So I have to put them somewhere about what we want to build next to do this is how many emails do you get, hey, read this, learn this, here's a link to this. Right? Right, your continual improvement, your learning list is endless. So all I do is I said, Well, I'm gonna shove all those there. And next time, I'm driving on vacation, I'm gonna bang out my learning list, I'm gonna read 10 articles. So I'm grouping up all those learning things and getting them out. So that's an example. So those are the first five types of guides and every one of our boards are different. This is just how I chose to organize mine, yours will be different. Because how you think and how you categorize your work. Here's another one, I have backlog, I just have backlog that's like my bad bucket, because that means I didn't really manage it. Here's conferences, I'm going to, here's things I need to schedule, here's things are scheduled two weeks out. So this is another hard part. Since most of us have so many meetings, getting your meetings into Trello. Because I don't wanna I don't wanna look at my calendar, and then look at my inbox and try to balance like, what am I going to focus on today? How am I gonna do this? So what I do is I forward all my meetings to Trello. And I put a date on him and I have all kinds of different scheduling things to do. Because that's part of leadership is like, unfortunately, scheduling a lot of meetings. So, so here's, here's three meetings I need there are in a process being scheduled. So my, my administrative help is helping me schedule these things. So that they, they being the president CEO, they reach out to you first and you get all a lot of inquiries. And I forward it to her and copy her, send it to my Trello board, she works on scheduling it for me, right, and then then it pops over here. These are things that I've scheduled this week, there's things scheduled for next week, and anything greater than two weeks out, I just shove in here. Okay, and the reason I have these lists is because you're looking at a screen, he can only see down so far. So I found it like averaging, I tried to average no more than two or three meals a day at max. So I found that I in a week, right? I can handle like 10 or 15 and my scrolling thing. So that's why I have that. So you see the due dates on there. Right? I also have next today. So great. I have some meetings today, where I missed and canceled a meeting, right? So somebody canceled on me last minute or I got tied up and I missed the meeting. And I don't want to miss meeting. So if I miss it, I want to get that rescheduled right away because it's disrespectful. Or I have things I'm just waiting and watching. So these are all my delegation things that are that are not seven, right six, fives and fours. So I know that well, I have an obligation here whether or not maybe things have changed. And I need to go to rich and say I'm a seven now. Take me off your meetings quick copy me. I'll see it when I see it because I just got too much on my plate. Right. So I have to remember all those constraints and all those cross team commitments that I made to my to my peers. Questions so far?

I couldn't use my presentation view. So I can't see the time on the clock. All right. So the reason that I put due dates on here, because then I use the calendar view. And here you are, we're a path to agility 10am. Okay, I have to meet with Dave later, there's a dinner tonight, doing a class tomorrow here. And then on the way home, I have a conference call, I have to respond to that. And I gotta meet two other people while I'm here. Okay, so what I did is I took what's scheduled, and then I filled in my backlog for the day with all my other stuff, right? And so often when I'm doing the planning game, I get to zero and I look at my meetings, like crap, I gotta get out of some of these meetings. Because I had some real goals I need to get done this week, or, Hey, I'm going to speak at a conference and I need to clean up this talk, right to go speak at a conference. So that's how I use it the calendar view and getting all that to work. It takes a lot of work, right. But, you know, prior to grooming your backlog prior to your backlog should. So how does this feed to my peers? So again, we have a daily standup, we try to get to zero, we put it up there, we put our daily goals on the board. During the meeting. We don't say oh, what do you what did you do yesterday? We're going to do today? You know, we're all leaders, right? Hope we did good stuff yesterday. What I really want to do is adapt my plan. So this is our stand up. Well, these are leaders across the top Monday, Tuesday through Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or down the side. So the first thing we do is we all right, our meetings up there, right? Because that's it makes sure it's on our Trello board. And that now we can round out what we're going to do the rest of the day by pulling from our personal backlog, right? Or I say oh yeah, I'm watching rich. I need to go hang out with rich a little bit. I get an update on that project or whatever that is. Questions? Thoughts? Yeah? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And there's all kinds of plugins. So the question was, are there any API's for Trello? It's pretty robust. There's a couple plugins I tried to do for the county thing. And, and that works great until people change meetings. It doesn't have backward flow. So it was creating like, I'm like, Oh, is it? Am I with Astra on Tuesday or Thursday? Because I can't remember which way it changed. So so some of the API's are good, but they don't says it doesn't have backward data compatibility, you know, talking back.

Yep. Yeah, sure. Yeah, I haven't figured out this whole county thinking things if you got to figure it out. That's, I would love to learn how to do it. Because I've tried so many different ways to do it. And shorter stopping my developers to code something for us. Yeah, okay, good. There you go. He can help me do it. Good. Any other questions? Who's gonna try this? Oh, boy, it's hard. So if you do, please let me know how it's working for you. Because even across our leadership team here, I think really three of us are really hitting zero every day. Out of you know, that's not the complete list, or the more names in there are up here. Some people are really sticking to their personal time management ones. The other reason that I'm not a big tool fan, but the other reason your backlog is so big. And if you travel, you have to have it online. Right? Some people like that are on the boat all the time. They don't use Trello. Their their backlog, it's actually written up here, you can't see it, where they keep their backlog. It says whether it's on Trello, or it's on, if you don't travel, you just put it on the wall. Right. It's big, it's a lot of stuff. And they and sometimes they're put in spreadsheets or backlogs and putting stuff up there. But nonetheless, they choose not to use Trello. So

some of the posts devoted to trifold. Horrible things. Yeah.

Lots of tricky. I'll show you the tri folds here in a second. Yeah, so the goal of our stand up so one of the as a leader, right, you show up to your work job to do the best job you can do every day. No doubt about it, you shouldn't be on the leadership team, right? The challenge, the challenge is understanding what your peers are working on. And often I wake up and I'm getting shot. I'm like, okay, get my game on. What am I going to do today? And I come in and I get nothing Oh, crap, I forgot. Right? I didn't forgot we had to get that RFQ out, or we need this customers coming in or, or Jesus, you mean, you know, path agility is only three days out, you know, panic, right. And so, so that happens all the time. And especially in the services industry, we're always adapting. So the most important thing I can do for the day is say, hey, you know, wow, I really need help. Today, I'm throwing up the flag, I went to last responsible moment speaking in Columbus tomorrow. And I don't have any, any, I was hoping to work with our designers design this little card, I couldn't do it, who can take help me with this is one car to get this thing done? Right? A good team will adapt for each other, right and say, Hey, I don't want John to fail as conference when we hand out something. So that's a that happens all the time we adapt every day, you know, interviews, you name it. There's something always something that makes us adapt. So when I look at the people that are on my leadership team, I don't care if you're in finance, you're in legal, you're in HR, I care, are you doing the right thing for us every day, based on the highest value thing we can do that day, right. And we've had people switch three or four different roles that lead dog, right by sliding around. So which is another important thing, so let's say my finance person, you know, has a health issue or she's out, right, and I have two of them, but to say, the primary one with most of the knowledge about how we do things, she's out when our backlog is completely exposed? I can go and look at our Trello board say, Wow, what was what was she was listed on today? Like, what was her priorities? And what meanings did she have? And how can we support her as a team member? Right. So again, there's lots of you get a lot more value, when you expose what we're doing. It takes the mystery out of it for your teams, anybody leaned on to see my backlog? And if I'm not working on the right thing, they can call me out on it, right? And say, hey, you know, why are you working on this crazy Skylift idea and other other ideas I do in the community? When we actually really need your help over here. Right? And can you support us? So ultimately, we're trying to create T shaped people, right? People that have this deep experience, we're willing to go broad, right? And we can shift and adapt and pivot when we need to. This is no different than we want on our our delivery teams. Okay, squads and boards. How many people are familiar with Spotify? Awesome. I mean, how about Spotify is engineering culture. Okay, cool. Write that down. That's a must watch video, Henrik neighbors, a good friend, very brilliant coach. Leading the agile movement, Spotify, they have a lot of great online videos. So we were I watched this video and that's it's one of those drawing videos right there. Pretty cool to watch anyways, and he does his talk and the story paints itself out and talks about how they actually build software. Well, I didn't get that out of the video, what I got was a new vocabulary for us to adopt. I didn't like that notion of saying, Wow, okay, you're in charge of business development. So these two people report to you, right? It just didn't feel right. We weren't trying to do that. Well, we want to do is create an organization where we form squads, or tribes, right? But let's stick with Sturm squads, squads, and we focus on a problem and we solve it together, right? And then we squat on the next problem, we squat and that I don't want all these hierarchy, right? I want to, I want people to apply their knowledge to the best they can. So we'll do the collaboration aid on that squad board will say, Okay, now we need to solve this problem. How are we going to do it? And so what's the radio, just Google Spotify culture, and you'll find it. There's 215 minute videos. There's lots of other great videos by Spotify, and Henrik out there too, to watch. But it's a quick learn. And so when we did it, lean dog, we said, Wow, we liked this vocabulary. So we went over to the wall that we have, which I didn't put a picture in which we have a cadence wall, and she has all the meanings we have at Lane dog. Why we have in which the late did it honors? So is that for customer delight people to late business the late right, and but we also have our Lean dog vocabulary. So we have, this is how we work. These are systems policies, if you will, we use Vista five, we use collaboration eight, right? We use the word tribe to mean this, we use squads to mean this, right? So we actually have defined our vocabulary. So anybody new comes into my culture, right? They can understand that we've all agreed to this. And they need to understand, this is how this this society has agreed to function. This is what meetings we have, this is our responsible accountability. And these are the things we do. So we adopted some of that. This is a little bit deeper look at tribes and chapters and squads. But right now, we're primarily on our leadership team using the squad term. And what we've done is we create squad boards. Okay, so we don't have enough walls, right. But we have a hell a lot of tri folds. Okay. And a lot of them. And so here, this is one this one's for, I think, cut. What is it? Yeah, it's training in the training squad. So we kind of have here's our, across the top autonomy control, right, responsible, accountable. So where are we sign up? So? And then we have our long term mission? Like, what's our goal with training with our product strategy? How are we going to measure it? When we do a retrospective? What are improvement ideas for around training? And then we have all these goals we came up with the goals are ATDD was standardized. We're going to embed a C class with James grunting I can't wait that one is anyways, we have four goals for epics that we did do. So we decompose those into small backlogs. And we create a really small column on wars. The reason we use tri folds is these go to meetings with us. Right? We carry these things around, and we say, well, we're gonna have, we're gonna have we're having a training squad meeting. So we just grabbed the board, we go in there, we open it up, we talked about it, we do a retrospective, we move around, we sign up for work, we sign up for work, we take that work, we put it on our Trello board. Okay, so it's back in our backlog. Okay, so I signed up to be a three on this training thing. That means I better have been signed up for some work. So what whatever cards, my name are on, I'm putting on my personal board. We don't have a training board. We all have personal boards. Okay, we could you know, we could have one, but we don't in this case. Make sense? Okay, thanks. We have lots of boards, stacks of them. There's like 30 right there, probably. But they're all over the place. And so we have a little bit and we a little post it notes, we can find the boards quickly. And typically, if you own the boards, there's they're close to wherever you're hanging out for the day. But when often we're tripping over, so they're just, there's a lot of them. And then plus part of the cleanup on Friday is which boards aren't we using? Get rid of them? Right? Let's get rid of the waste the clutter. All right. Okay, step seven ceremonies and cadence. So we have a daily standup, we have bi weekly sprints. So we meet and we go over at a high level, we do retrospectives. And then I do one on ones with everybody just to understand prioritization at the highest level, because my job is kind of see the whole, but it's one thing to do that. But we still have to have a roll up picture, right? We can't have all these stand ups and Trello boards, it's just too much. So I talked about the standup already. So we have epic prioritization. So this is an example. It's, this is right now it's a spreadsheet because Google Docs and we travel, and I go out and meet with people and I talk about the plan. But we have all of our functions down the left side, you know, these are the extra categories I didn't show you before. Who the who the the primary responsible person is whose This is the person who's scheduling the squad meetings. Right and working quarterback in it, right? So there, there might be more people responsible, but we didn't put them all on here, because there, it's changing. And we didn't want to change the sheet. We're like, Okay, well, just as long as the primary hasn't changed, we have to update to see where they keep their backlog isn't on a board is on a wall. What goals are they completed? What are the next three and then we kind of lay out the cards this only shows the dollar ones, but this is also how we do budget Deneen. So we're speaking it. Next week at Fort Lauderdale in South Florida conference, right? We're given out 400 books of our agile discussion guide, eight bucks apiece. So I had to go through and say, you know, I got $3,200 that I want to spend to execute this card on this on that training board, or that marketing board, and we put it out here, and then we grow up the decisions. So when we do the spending wall meeting, we can also look at the epic level, because a lot of the spending was just little stuff. Sometimes the sometimes people forget to put on the spending wall. So this is just, you know, it's a cash business. So we got to keep an eye on it, make sure that we're we're doing the right spend for the right outcomes. Alright, so that was it. That's what we do. It's a continual work in progress. And how much time we have left and so that's the boat before we renovate it. So it was a restaurant called hornblower's had no toys, no boat docks, we added a building. This is a US cod World War Two submarine that's right next to us. And so questions? Yes. I'll give you Yep, we're getting a copy of a book. You can you can get it online as well. We have iPad version we have videos. We you can subscribe to it. Some companies have chosen to adopt our book is there like PMO standard like we you guys are always adding and doing it. So why? Why should we write up our own just send us as you discover better ways software, toss it in there. We also have an app. So this Lean dog app has collaboration, eight fists to five t shirt sizes for estimation and planning six thinking hats. The reason we created an app is I can't remember all that stuff either. Right? So we're thinking, what's that blue hat? Oh, okay. So it's a it's a free app. And it just gets you. It has this for reference. And so if you have somebody new and say, Hey, we're gonna go through this, this process, it's just a quick reference guide is nothing, nothing fancy. And on our site, you can a lot of other stuff. Other questions? Yep.

Explained collaboration eight again. Okay, that's fine. Are we good with that? Or any other questions? I can do that last? Any other burning questions? Okay, let's do that.

No idea where that was. There we go. Okay. So the idea here is that you're talking about how much autonomy control you want for an outcome for a piece of work. So you're signing up saying why I really, I really feel passionate about this. And I really want to tell you what I want to do, it has to be this way. And that's, that's how passionate I am about carrying out that work. I want to make sure it's done right. And I want to, I want to do it. First, I consider this to be my responsibility. But I want to get buy in from others, I hear you, I really want to, I'm passionate about it. But I'm really wanting to like to talk to everybody on my team about it, and get behind it. Because sometimes, if you're one, you don't need any help. Like, oh, you can you've done this before, you just want to knock it out of the park, cool. Knock it out of the park, again, I don't need need support. Three is kind of what I really want to consult. So you guys are over here, and you're really passionate about it. You know, I want to I kind of want to be up in this responsibility, because I'm not as passionate about as you guys like, I don't have really strong opinions, but I definitely want to consult give you my input. And I want to agree with you on what we do. Okay? For is I want to pair with you, right? We mutually disagree. It's 5050. Let's figure this out. And let's get this done. And we're both equally responsible and accountable. Right? Five is okay, I just want to give you insight, but then you make your own decision. So I'll tell you everything I know about that. And then you decide what you want to do. Okay. And if you don't take my input, you don't take my input. Right, I chose not to be responsible. Right? You did. So you're gonna be accountable because you're responsible. Right, I'm consulting and informing you, that's all I'm doing. And that's kind of what the advisors and then the inquiries, you know, I trust you to do the work, but I want to understand so I can support you. Right. So same thing. You know, hey, you know, I asked Alistair to do he said he'd take the food and then we had we had beans and rice and closed conference. That was a bad idea. And next time, I'm like, Well, I'm gonna I'm gonna maybe take more responsibility with Alastair next time. And I'm gonna jump over and help him because I didn't like the outcome. I can't say, hey, Alistair, that was horrible. You're horrible person, because you chose me in the right. I chose not to have an input. Right? So I can't it's not fair for me to judge him when I chose not to have any responsibility. And he was willing to take that on okay. And then delegates like, Yeah, whenever whenever we eat, we eat right now it'll happen. I don't want to know about it. I don't want to see the menu. I don't wanna be copied on the emails. I don't want to be in the meetings. Right? So you'll hear us sometimes didn't run Lena. We're talking we'll talk about something like okay, where are you at? Now? You four. Right. Are you seven? Like because or You know, Jesus, you were a seven. And now you're forced to here's using the numbers, right? Because it's pretty easy. Remember force pairing, right? It's in the middle. And so it's pretty easy system to remember. So. So that's how we use it. I haven't heard us use the word Joker too much, because it hasn't been an issue. And most people aren't good at that. It's easier just to say response. Courage, communication and respect. Can we talk about this? Yes. Yeah, number, do you really need seven? Do you really use all sudden, we have been just because it was an easy formula to remember. I don't know we use all the numbers all the time. Right. I agree with you. racy was for right, responsible counsel consultant for and it was there was no middle pair. And we thought, okay, well, let's pick four. Yeah, yeah. Could be three, flip me off right there with Pfizer, Pfizer? Oh, good. Yeah, so it could be five, I don't care what the pattern is. Right? If I worked for you use five? Yeah. Yeah, you're gonna had seven, and we changed the vocabulary changed the way we used it. And so in respect to that, we didn't want to like, Oh, we're gonna blow it up and go to five, right? It just, it really didn't matter to us end of the day, we knew four was in the middle. And we knew there were seven. Well, or you could have fours, right? Just I mean, as long as you have people that are responsible and accountable, right, sometimes things are forced, right, all fours, you know, and there's, and because we all feel that same passion about it. And we all want to work on at the same level and do it. And so it really is, it's more about, it's just like anything, it's the conversation, this creates the right setting to have the right conversation. Economy control is hard. It's really hard to do, because it changes. You know, and I changed, you know, I, you know, we all change on a daily basis, like, sometimes I really want to be involved, and then something out, now I'm overwhelmed. I just can't be involved. And so, you know, we had a situation would come to this conference, I was at the boat late last night. And we didn't have any supplies packed in the car, right. And three, four or five of us are coming down. And, and so we didn't, we didn't do a responsibility, hey, we're going to this conference, we need to print some marketing material, let's break down the work for that. We didn't, we didn't take time to actually talk about that. So we failed, we didn't fail. We almost felt that last minute. We're like, Oh, crap, we gotta bring 100 books down for our class tomorrow, we got to know who's going to hand out the print. And Greg had to leave here and go to a meeting. And, you know, we just we didn't actually perform as a squad. Say, we're gonna go to Columbus and take a day, two days away from the office. How are we going to find success? And who's going to do what aspects of it? Yeah, so we had nobodies that week. Since we didn't do that. Getting the marketing materials down here. Was there was nobody responsible, accountable for that. retrospect after this will be well, why didn't we have a quick squad meeting, we are sending a squad of five people down to Columbus. That's a high cost.

Good to hear, nice to get positive feedback. Yes. So just another

kind of tripping over what we have all the responsibilities work, and then the directors in the eye and together, wherever they feel. Sure. Things like hiring process. Like that. So we use

sounds good here. So they're, they're still using it to fuse. So it's working for them. It's been a while now to say so like, even if you go the fuse, like a lot of those walls aren't there anymore. They serve their purpose, they die, they got us on the same page. It's often the your hardest problems will be on your walls and become the lead dog, you'll see our customers and matching our people up. That's our hardest problem, right? Making sure we can have business light and people delight and matching that up with the culture. So we have more walls about that than anything, because the hardest thing we do every day, is make those two things work. And, and so I'm glad to hear your your, your this is working for you. Any other questions? Yes, this slide deck will be available. It will be we'll have it available on our Lyndoch SlideShare off our site, but I'm sure the conference will because they're doing audio video and and there is a QR code by the way on the back of your card. And that's for feedback. I haven't checked it out myself, but this little thing on the back of your card. That's for feedback. So but I think every path agility conference has made the slides available right now so people speak so yeah. Go our website. Yeah, thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Yes. What do you do with something is already done in archives. What do you do to keep apart? We don't care we just throw away. I mean, at the epic level, I care so that spreadsheet That's because reality is at the end of the year, we're all switching roles. And anywhere that's at that spreadsheet, that's why I have a Done column. It's got to be further right.

There, pass it over here. Thank you. Okay. So that's why this goal is completed. That's just says, Oh, wow, can we achieve this cart? We complete it. That's that's the way we earn respect across people, because it's really easy to forget what your peers have done, right? Oh, that's right, we launched our agile discussion guide, 3.0 3.2. And we did this and we did that. So we have to celebrate our successes. And so we take these goals to leadership level, and we have our company meeting. That's what we share. We also have on every board a retrospective on every board. So we also have a retrospective wall. And so we also roll up our retrospective. And so at our company meeting, we pull these things and we use that for the next level of communication out. Because most people don't know what we do what we can complete. Right? If things were just spinning wheels up there, and we aren't really getting stuff done. We're just defending everything. Good question. Any other questions? All right, thank you all for coming.


## Pitt Agile - Planning Estimation 2020 Virtual Talk

And that was agile, we're flipping the triangle. So the typical time scope and cost triangle. So under waterfall, right, you would have a fixed scope, you would try to estimate things very precisely those requirements, you would then estimate the cost and estimate the time. With agile, what we're doing is we're fixing the team. So we're establishing whole Standing Teams. So as soon as we do that, and Scrum will tell you, a team size is seven plus or minus two, I can tell you from experience that that's, we'd like bigger teams 12 to 16 people per team. And there's a reason for that. And I'm only going to cover scrum today and not Kanban. But I have another talk on Kanban explains why we need bigger teams, because we need more T shaped people. But the point being is that we're as soon as we fix the team, meaning we're trying not to loan resources, or hate the word resources people, right from team to team, once we fix the size of the team, we've now fixed the cost, because the cost is the salaries of that of that team. Okay, we also are now going to work in one or two week iterations. So we're going to work in one or two week sprints, and we're going to set our fixing the time. So now that we have a Standing Team, we have fixed time, the only thing that can change is scope. Okay, so the predictability of what we're going to do the estimates, right, which we're going to spend a lot time talking about today, that's the only thing that can vary. So this is a fundamental concept to agile, that we're flipping that triangle. And that estimation is not a precision game. And that's kind of I think the fallacy of waterfall is that people think that it is precise that a creative process, such as creating software is very precise. It's not it's creative. So it's very variable. So we'll talk about how we overcome that. So we're going to talk only today about Scrum, not Kanban. I'm a bigger fan of Kanban, and Scrum. So if you're not familiar with Kanban, you should study that. We do offer a free agile explain class, I think it's just going to be sending out to everybody. And if you wanted to go the Kanban section, you could, but scrum has some basic terminology, like we have a product backlog. So your product product backlog is basically call it your requirements. Okay? We've called them story cards in Scrum, we then take from that product backlog, the requirements that we think we can get done in a sprint or an iteration. And we make that the sprint backlog. So we pull out the things we think we can get done in a one or two week period, right? We put them in as in that current iteration, right. And then we work from one to two weeks. I know this diagram shows two to four weeks, but scrum even changed that a long time ago, nobody, nobody just over two weeks now. Because the feedback loops tool home, we have a daily standup or daily scrum meeting, where we actually talk about what we're doing what we're working on. And the goal is that at the end of that one or two week iteration, we can we're now shipping, working software. Okay, so that's the basic scrum terminology. So product backlog, also known as story cards, right? Story cards are really what they are their index cards ready for close notes, right. And so they're actually they don't they, the stories are not tasks. So they're usually written in a format like this, as the user, I want this so that I can do this. So it's demonstratable business value. So as a user, I want to be able to log into the system so that I can gain access to the technology. Okay, so there might be a lot of tasks that go behind that story card. But what we're trying to do is we're trying to write this as demonstratable business value, okay, and that this seems really easy. But really, the purpose of the story is to start the right conversation about how can we actually achieve that business value. And the business doesn't care about the task, they don't care. If you need to create a database table, a front end and back end, they don't really care. All they want is demonstratable business value. And so that's how we write stories. It's hard, it seems easy at first. And if you're new to agile, you start writing stories. Most people write stories that are really big. There's a rule called the InVEST principle, where you have to write stories are independent, negotiable, valuable, estimable, and small and testable. And usually, when teams first start, they write a lot of large stories. And then as they start breaking it down in the backlog and release planning, they start to kind of split. And they say, Well, we could actually make that smaller and smaller and smaller. So how do you write stories are really small? They're independent, right? So this is a craft. I wish it was that simple. We do one or two day workshops around just writing stories. But you know, initially, if people are going to write stories the best they can, and you'll mature over time. So let's get into kind of the whole point of this talk, which is how do we do really estimation sizing and backlog planning? So there's a concept in Agile called Planning poker. A good friend of mine, James grunting is one of the Agile Manifesto owners, James actually invented that, and he's been in the boat here. He's I've taught classes with him. And the way James described how he came up with planning poker is he basically was sitting in a room with a whole bunch of very smart people. And they had loads and loads and loads of requirements. And they were trying to come up with these precise, accurate estimates. And all of these really smart, analytical, analytical people around the table were trying to come up with because they knew they're going to be held to it in a waterfall world, right? The whatever we say, however, large or small, we say this thing's going to be how big it is to do, we're going to be held to that. So they would talk about one requirement for 2030 minutes an hour. Right? Then they talked about the next requirement for 20. You know, they were they were all trying to pretend like what they were doing was very precise. So James, at one point, took a bunch of index cards. And he wrote down small, medium, large, extra large, double XL, okay? And he said, Okay, let's assume this small card, extra small card is less than a day of work. And a small card is one to two, the mediums two to 468, and so forth. And He then wrote that down in index cards, and he handed out they created a set of those cards. That's why they're called called Planning poker. They were like poker parts. And he said, Okay, well, here's, here's your cards, and I'll show you the lino cards, and here's the t shirt sizes. Okay? And he said, Okay, now I went to developers, okay. And I talked about why only developers, I went to developers to basically, I'm going to discuss the requirement. So as a user, I want to be able to log into this system, so that I can do something. And now I want you to take your cards and just like poker, I want you to look at the size and say, Well, I think that's actually a medium size. Okay, and then the next developer would go, Oh, I think that's a small, and then somebody else would say, Okay, I think that's a small, so the developers would then put their cards facedown on the table, and they would basically do a poker flop. So let me just go to my live. Let me stop my share for a second. Okay, can you guys see me? My friend, Senator. Okay. So now that they they basically have their cards, and they lay them down on the table? They would do the flop, and then flip them over? It's okay. Wow, you know, what, Jeff thought it was a medium. Amy thought it was a small and John thought it was a small. Okay, so Wow, it looks like it's a small. Now, if we did the flop, and somebody had something like an extra large, and then most of us had a small or medium, we probably ought to have a conversation. Like, hey, you know, Linda, why did you think that was an extra large. And then Linda would speak up and you by the way, you're doing this in front of your business partners? Okay, this transparency of planning, poker is not just done by it, your business partners, your product owners are sitting in the room watching you actually do this. So they're realizing that by watching a bunch of smart people, right, do this, this estimation, that wow, even if you know, Linda, thought it was an Excel John thought it was a small, wow, that's a completely different scale. So clearly, estimation is hard. And it's not precise. Okay, so the value in my opinion of planning, poker is a business hearing that conversation, and then Linda speaks up and says, Well, you know why this is XL, because I just did something like this. And we're you got, we got to think through the security implications, we got to think that through some of the design things, you know, there's, there's a lot of ways we could solve that problem. And and this is my knowledge about how I think I would solve the problem. And how lended itself, the problem might be different than how Jeff would solve the problem. So the value of this, this whole estimation process is you're exposing to your business partners, that a bunch of smart people couldn't even agree on how big or small it was. And it isn't precise. And but so so again, it's the conversation. I actually talked this plenty book of this. I was teaching class with James and he, and I said, Great crater plenty pokers can explain this. And he goes, No, I want to hear you tell the story. Not me. So I told the story. And I said, you know, to me that the most valuable part of the of this whole thing was the conversation about, you know, how hard it is, as a creative person to actually predict predict something. And so the conversation is valuable, James like, it's funny, because I actually invented planning poker to get people to shut up.

I there was so much analytical debate over something that was not precise. The whole point was we were talking too much. And so most of the time, when you do planning poker, you will come out, right? So so again, the way this works, you have your product owner, business analysts, they're sitting in a room, they're talking about the user story card, they're saying, as a user, I want this so that I can do this. developers, testers. Everybody's in the room, the entire team is in his planning game. But the estimate issue is actually done by the developers, I'll come back to that as to why only the developers, so they will read the card would be everybody will take their cards, they'll do the thing we'll do the flop with, okay, we start to get a stack of cards. And we try to do this virtually. So now I have a bunch of small cards, we did, these are all kind of medium cards. These are large cards. Okay, so now we've established kind of the size of things. And we've done again, done this in front of the business. Now what we need to do is apply point value to it. So we take all the extra small cards, and we and we say okay, that's worth one point. Okay, we take the small cards, and we say it's worth two points, we take the medium cards with four, if you notice, we're doubling the point value for each t shirt size 124 816. The reason we're doubling the size of the points is that indicate that that's that's risk, right? If something's really easy to do, then it's, you know, there's less risk it's going to grow on you. If something's Extra Large to do, there's a chance that it's going to grow in scope. So the reason we do that is account for that. So if we're talking about the analogy I could use will be from digging a hole, right? That's pretty precise, I can probably look around, there's no trees, no roots, okay, probably predict how long that might take, if I'm going to dig a ditch. Okay, there's a lot more uncertainty and doing something big, right? If it's harder and more complex, there's more chances that we're not going to be that precise in sizing things. So we double the points again, for risk. So now that I have the cards, okay, laid out and I know the small to medium. Usually in the bottom of this card, I'll put the size of the card. So as you can see an extra large is a 16. Right, a large is an eight. Okay, so we actually put the point value in the side side. So now that we've established kind of the relative size of things. And you know, humans are much better at judging the size of things than being precision on ours. It's kind of like, is it a Chihuahua, or Great Dane or a bulldog? Right, it will be different sizes. So when it comes down to t shirt sizes, it's a lot of y'all we're trying to do is we're trying to tell our business partners. Well, that's extra large, and that's extra small. So I have a budget. My budget is I have a two week time, I have a fixed team that can work on this, this thing. And they can solve so many problems in a week, they can only achieve so much business value in a given period. So I have to make a decision. Do I want 10? Extra smalls or one extra large? Do I want calla zones? Or do I want an extra large pizza? Right? Or do I want breadsticks and two Cal zones? So the whole point, right is we're trying to give the bits of the business if this isn't a precision game, we have only five orders of magnitude of problem solving here. And we can only solve so many problems in a given period. Okay, so I

actually had the same question. Someone else Greg did. Doubling the points versus Fibonacci.

Yeah. So that's a it's a great, great one. So Fibonacci. Was this other one that created it? It sounds really good. I didn't we never practiced that. It came out in the book. And it sounded Ellis next Fibonacci sounds like a really good thing. James Grenier himself will tell you, that's way meant to wait way too much too many orders of magnitude. Right? It's, I don't we don't use it. We use we use t shirt sizes. And we use even points. Because it's easier to do the math. And and the again, having all those I mean, how many are there and Fibonacci actually have it in my slide deck here. There's what? Zero, I can't even remember one, three. So all those 369 1111 theories of complexity. Right? That's just way too many. T shirts are plenty for us. And it's always worked. And, you know, it's hard for me to say, well, it's something infinity or one, or three or seven. First was an extra large, small medium, right? Even our business can relate to that. We start using Fibonacci, I think your customers look at and say, Wow, we look at all this precision, like Fibonacci sounds like they have this scientific equation, right? And how to do estimation. And it's not that it's not that it's what we do is a lot simpler. It's a lot less precise. We're knowledge workers, and it's creative process. You know, I tell people that writing code can be like writing an email. If I have to write a really important email, I could take eight hours to do it. Or I could take two minutes, right? I could overanalyze it, keep refactoring it, changing it doing it. We're all set because that's a creative process communication, right? So it's no different than writing code. Okay, so now that we have a bunch of story cards, I'm gonna try to make sure you guys can see me good. Okay, so now up here in the wall. I have a whole bunch of story cards. So In this case, I have two different product owners. So here's product owner a, there's the orange cards, there's product owner B, which has a bunch of yellow cards, okay? So it's also okay for a team to be delivering for multiple product owners. Typically, you create agile teams, and you give them a one to one like, hey, this product owner gets this team. But when you start building larger teams, we could absolutely serve multiple product owners. So now that we've written the cards up here, and we put the point value, so much a small, medium, large as extra largest, we have 816 is twos fours, written all over them. Now what we need to do is release planning. Okay, so see here, am I Oh, cameraman, so bear with me. So now we're going to take these cards, and we're going to pull off the storyboard wall, we're gonna say, alright, we have a one week, here's the first iteration. Can you guys see this? Okay? Okay, so we have iteration one, that's, that's a one or two weeks sprint, iteration to iteration three, iteration four, five, and six. Okay, so we're going backwards that way. We don't know, for this team, whatever the last is going to be, we don't know how many problems we can solve in a sprint. So we're going to, we're basically gonna guess, we're gonna say, well, would it be great if we could get 10 points done in the first iteration? Maybe we get 10. There, maybe our team starts to storming, norming. performing better, now we're gonna get 1212 1414. So we start off with a best guess. And we say, well, we know that there's only so many story cards, that we can get done in a given sprint. So now that we set a rule for 10. Now what we need to do is we need to kind of fill fill it up. So we get the product owners up here and we say, Okay, what do you want us to build? First? What business value is liberal first? So here's the well, I'd like to get to this extra small card. That's a one, that's a four, that's a five. And I'd like to get this of its age. Okay, well, we are limits 10. So now we need to go back to the well, and we need to find something that we think we can do. Now, in this case, we have two product orders. So we have five for that product owner. So maybe there's, you know, the next product owner may choose another five. So now guess what? first sprint, two product owners, they're gonna get five points, they're gonna get five points. Okay, so we continue to do this. And the product owners are the ones who are initially laying out the product backlog. So imagine the waterfall, you're not building the Gantt chart, you're building the cancer, but you didn't build the Gantt chart your business owners did, right? They now that they know the size of things, they can say geez, I'd rather have two extra smalls or five extra smalls, I had I knew that was an extra large, and that would consume the entire sprint, I wouldn't have done it. So you continue to do this, okay. And you continue to stick cards up here, and you continue to play the point value, you don't violate it. Now, don't get me wrong. If you're working in a sprint and you get your 10 points done, you don't stop. Right, you pull the next highest value card and you keep going. Okay, and again, I'm a big fan of Kanban Bigger, bigger fan of Scrumban combined Scrum and Kanban. But, yeah, so you go through this, we lay out the plan. So that's step one. Okay. So step one in, like, you can see it over here is we're going to take, and we're going to have the business owners putting the highest value thing first. Okay, I'll just stick it over here. So you can see it. So that's step one. Now that we have the highest value thing, the next thing we're going to do is review dependencies. So once we have the per se Gantt chart up on the wall, now this is when the engineering team, it takes over QA ba developers, they're like, Yeah, you know what, that's a great plan. But we can't we have to do, we can't do this one before this one. So can we change this around? Okay, or we'll look at it, we'll look at other outside team dependencies. We'll say, Yeah, you know, what the problem is, is that these two require that we work with another vendor, or we work with our infrastructure team. And four weeks from now, I know that they don't have any capacity. Because you actually will bring in these outside teams in here. You will bring in your infrastructure, your security team, when you're doing this release planning. So anybody outside the team that's dependent on delivering business value there, they need to come in and say, Yeah, that's great. But these cards have security implications. And my team's totally consumed for the next five, Sprint's, and we don't have any capacity to actually support delivering that business value. So what you're doing is you're instead of like a waterfall when you create the perfect project plan, and then you go around and ask everybody if it's good, and everybody nods their head, right? You're actually bringing them into the room in front of your business partners saying is this a valid claim? Right, can you support this ever been and your business partner started realizing, holy crap, I thought I was just asking Jeff, to do something for me and Jeff had to go and get somebody from security. Somebody from infrastructure and somebody from DevOps and somebody and they start seeing all that talent that it requires actually execute and deliver this technology. Okay. And so and they see you see everybody having this intelligent discussion about Jishu. This happened first, what happened? Second, this one requires another vendor is one where it needs security. So it's the power of the conversation. That's why story cards are about conversations. Because if you write it down as if it's just a requirement, is that precise? You're kind of kidding yourself. Okay? Because it isn't that precise. It takes a lot of knowledge workers to achieve business value and leverage technology. So that's the whole key word. So the second thing we just did, right, is we just reviewed dependencies. Alright, so now the last thing we're going to do is pull risk forward. Okay. So now that we have this plan, this release plan laid out there, we're gonna say, alright, well, what's, what's the hardest thing that we need to do on that? It's like, Well, geez, you know, what, we want to ship after 12 weeks, six iterations, we actually want to ship something to production. But we're gonna do something we've never done before, all the way about iteration five. Okay, we're actually going to do an integration with Lean though. And we've never worked with Lean dog before, or we're going to, we're going to embrace a new technology into the mix that we've never done. So that's risky. So why don't we take that card? It's flagged as a high risk card. And let's say, Well, what can we do to do something riskier? sooner? Okay, so we'll start moving cards by risk back in our iteration so that we we uncover the the highest risk things first, if we wait to iteration five, and find out that that thing was an extra large, and we thought it was a medium, right, and it blows up on us? We're screwed, we can't hit our date, because it's way more work than we have capacity and time to do. Okay, and I'm sorry, I can't really see the chat window. So yeah,

it was a quick question. Earlier, you had mentioned serving multiple product owners, you know, multiple projects for the team? Is there a number you typically try to get that to? Or, you know, an optimal is depend on the team?

It depends on the product that you're working on? It's a great question. I, you know, we, we've, I've been doing this for a long time. So we've coaches about every kind of product project, we did an SAP implementation with, with a large company here. And they had, they had 12 people who could configure in and modify SAP and 816 product owners that want them to modify 16, right, because 16 people needed that system to be configured it for them to improve their process and their job. So I don't think there's a limit on product owners at all. It just takes discipline and, and the key was that many product owners is, you know, the product code into the grooming session. So when you pull the product that is in front of the plan, you're constantly adjusting the plan. And I'll go there in a minute about velocity and, and how we adapt and adjust. But the key is like, if those Proctor's didn't show up for this backlog, planning meeting, guess what their cards didn't get prioritized. So you've learned pretty quickly that, you know, I need to show up and I need to speak to true business value. Because with my all my colleagues want, there's a level of people that can do the job and 16 people that want them to do work. And all 16 of them could have consumed them full time. And so they really had to get good at balancing and agreeing as product owners, who goes first, second, third, are we doing round robin? Are we going to come up with a business value scoring process? To do that? That's typically what we do is we'll come up with a good way of determining business value with them. And it's custom per product. But that's a great question. Any other questions about this? So far? Okay, so now that we kind of have a release plan, and remember, we guessed on how many points we're going to do. Now we're going to start working and we're going to work out I'll call it two weeks sprints. Over here. Let's see if you guys can see this. So now we're actually going to create calculate velocity. So, worker. So over here, we have to have time, so this is iterations. Okay, so this is Sprint 1.2345. Over here, we have points 510 1520 25. So we've worked at first spread, we got done, we said, hey, how many points how many cards do we get done? You know, we wanted to get these cards done. There's 10 points here. But you know, we got them all done, except for this one. We actually only got four or five six points on a 10. Okay, so we go over to we go over the chart and we say okay, iteration one, we got six points. Okay. So Typically, when I'm starting with a new team, I like to go three sprints before I have an average. So I like to take the amount of points we get done for each sprint, and then have a rolling average of how many points we can bring it. But when you're starting, we just guessed at 10, we only got six times. Okay, so we got six. So we now said, Okay, well, now we need to shift. To try to do this virtually, we now now have to take this card, which we didn't get done, and we have to shift it over here. Right. So now we now have to take something here because our plates full break and shift this card back. So every sprint, we're going to say, based on our current velocity, which cards you want to get done, you don't get partial credit for cards. That's called hangover, by the way. So when one card hangs over the next sprint, you can't say, Well, geez, we got 50% done, because we're not going back to this hourly percentage game. Okay, we're saying we didn't get done, we couldn't ship it. It doesn't matter. If we were two hours away from getting it done or one hour, we still didn't get it done. Because things are always going to things, you're always going to kind of fall over to the next iteration. You the goal isn't to get everything done, and then go home. Right, the goal is always be working on on everything all the time. So in this case, we're going to swing that card over. So now we go through in that sprint, we got six, then the next sprint, and we actually got 10. Then we got you know, hey, we're doing really good. Now we got 12. So what we're doing is we're creating a chart, right, that says, here's our velocity. Again, I like to go three sprints. Before I actually think I have an average, that's predictable. So as as we start adjusting this, and we say, well, we got six down here, we got actually got 10 And we got 12. Right, the point is at some point, as our team matures, our velocity isn't you can't constantly go up, right, the car can't keep going faster and faster. We fixed the people on the team, they're working hard 40 as transparent as possible. There's only so many things problems they can solve in the sprint. So questions about that? Like I lost my zoom window for some reason. Oh, we're good.

Sorry, I took myself off. So I can sneeze.

Okay, so any questions about that so far?

You know, I, we can keep keep it to the end. But maybe at the end, you could give us a a thought on, you know, in these COVID times when we don't have everyone's got six whiteboards at home. If you have any thoughts on doing this without moving the laptop around, maybe later, we can talk about that.

Yeah, I mean, clearly, you know, with COVID, we have to embrace technology. Now. We've been using Miro mural for a lot of our planning gaze sessions. You know, most people with this today, everybody's using JIRA. Atlassian is kind of ruling the world, they've bought up every software company integrated with everything. So most people are doing this tool. The reason I like the paper, and the reason I chose to do this presentation at the boat today is because when you do not pay like this, there's a physical limitation, it's pretty easy to see my plates full. Okay, the one of the challenges I have with with tools is it, the cloud storage is infinite, I can send a million requirements into a JIRA database, right or a spreadsheet or, or something. And so what happens is, if you keep taking requests, then people think that you're going to actually get it done. Okay, I got my ticket, and I got my requirement. And so eventually, I'm going to actually get it. And I really like to do this physical planning with the business because it gives them a sense of sizes, and space and capacity. And I can't, I'm not violating this 12 Understand, or the six, right, that's my, that's my predicted speed of problem solving for this team. We hope will get better as a team, your team is going to business customers are going to they watched us do estimation, they watched us do sizing. They watched us do planning, right, then they're going to actually hear us do a retrospective and do a show and tell and I'll come back to that. I'll go back to my slide deck here. And I'll explain to you some of the feedback loops that really make this release planning thing work.

Okay, you guys see my screen. Good. Okay. So just to recap CES, I didn't cover this point. So why did it why did we only have the developers to the estimation? Okay, it seems crazy, right? Because in waterfall, he would say, hey, how long would it take to write requirements? How long is it gonna take to code it? How long does it take to test it? And then we add up all these individual estimates. And then we then we actually had it right, we say, Okay, now I'm going to I'm going to, I'm actually going to add maybe 30% overhead because we know we're This isn't precise. Right? And then I'm gonna hope that we We went off and our estimates by more than 30%. Okay, that's how most people do waterfall. So in Agile the developers do it. Okay, why did the developers do it? Remember, we're sizing the work. So typically, okay. The harder it is to code, the harder it was to do everything else. So it was really complex, it took a lot of code, right? Okay, then it was probably harder to do the requirements for that code, it's probably harder to test it, right, because it was more complex. So typically, the complexity of the coding effort carries through the size of the problem. Not all the time. I'm not saying sometimes it was really, you know, it was really easy to code. But it was hard to write the requirements, right. So but assume that 80% of the time, that the size, the amount of the code that we wrote, was indicative of the testing effort was now more like the testing effort or the requirements effort. Right now, we have a relative size, summing up the parts at individual roles of the knowledge workers, just doesn't work it, there's so much imprecision there. And so that's, that's why we have the developers do it. Now when we're doing the planning poker, okay? And we're doing that when we do the flop. QA is in the room, business analysts in a room, you know, when we say, hey, you know, as a user, I want to be able to do this so that I can do this. We're going to talk to our customers like, Okay, do you want that to be more like how you do it on Amazon? Or how you do it on eBay? Or on PayPal? Right? There's so many ways we could solve, we can make that experience happen. And so by having everybody in the room design thinking folks, testers, everybody talking about the testing complexity, that's all that valid, right? Everybody can talk about that. So we understand the scope. And we'll write down sometimes in the back of the card, what the acceptance criteria is. Okay. Wow, when we had that conversation about this, on the back of the car weighed down, okay, yeah, and it has to, it has to happen within, you know, a half a second. And, you know, so and the, the field needs to be masked, and this, so we'll write some of the some of the acceptance criteria we talked about when we came up with how big or small that problem was. Okay. Another thing that I want to mention is when you do this velocity chart, you can't compare points across teams, right? So for example, if one team with that working in SAP system has an extra large card is where 16 and eight, four, you can't compare that team's velocity to another meeting velocity, because they're different people. They're different technologies. And they solve problems differently as a team. Okay, so that's one of the biggest mindset mistakes I see is people take take velocity, and they're like, oh, geez, this team is better than that team, because they're going faster. No, they have different people on their team. They some of them were more mature teams, and collaborative teams and others, some are using, they're all probably using some, they all have different skills and different technologies that they're embracing. To do it. They have different product owners that they're working with, right to even do this. So you really can't compare points across teams. Again, here's the Fibonacci method. I think, Kevin, you alluded to, yeah, I don't 2040 13 I just think it was great for a book, I'd be honest. release planning. I've mentioned this already. I just want to recap, right, we we apply our velocity review dependencies are pulling value forward, pulling a risk forward, there's a thing called spikes in Agile, where you basically let's say that, let's say that we were going to do that, that that one hard card and iteration five, and we want to pull it forward, and we say, okay, rather than actually doing the card with Lean dog, right, and moving the workup? What if we just did a test? What if we wrote a what we call a spike, call it r&d, I'm just gonna do a Hello World, I'm going to send something to lean dog and get it sent back. And I'm gonna throw it away. But now that I've done that, and I know that we can communicate with them and get stuff back, right, I feel better about that. That risk coming up later in the plan. So those are called spikes. Spike cards are basically r&d. While we did the estimation, we weren't sure we tried these cards were really hard to size, because they're doing something in Ruby, and we've never done anything with Ruby. So maybe, you know, maybe Kevin should go play with Ruby for a while and write something simple, and then come back and say, Yeah, you know what, Ruby, is pretty easy. And I think we can embrace that skill pretty quickly. So I think that's about the right size for the card. So that that would be an example of a spike. You went off to learn something. Okay. Check my time here. All right.

For a few minutes, there's there's a little bit of side chatter. I don't know if you wanted to talk about it. The thing going back to the comment of a team working on multiple projects at the same time, developer, you know, having two projects to go back and forth on the question that keeps coming to my head every time I'm reading comments is when you're planning and I've got the development staff you know, of sizing things, but then stakeholders being president, doesn't it make that aspect of things much more complex? And I've got to do twice the stakeholders or I would have to do some of this at the same time, right, in order to get a good picture of what I can try to do in a sprint?

Yes, that's a great question. So if you're going to do if you have multiple product owners, that you're not going to, you'll do separate sizing sessions with him. Right, so you're not gonna make one product owner watch the size of the work for another product owner. So the scrum master iteration manager will facilitate, hey, let's bring product owner a in let's estimate their backlog. Now, now we're gonna have another meeting with product owner B, and we're going to estimate their backlog. So the estimation sizing, we will not we will not do that, like all the Proctor's don't have to be in a room. The release plan is when we need the multiple product leaders in the room, because now we have one team, they need to we don't care, I tell people, I got a degree in engineering, I love taking applying technology to solve business value, I don't care who I make happy, right? I just want to do the best thing for the company. So the product owners can find out who gets capacity from this team, right? We have a fixed team, they in fact, it's really great, because when you do it this way, you learn so much more about the business, because the product owners are up there talking about, hey, why why do I need this business value? And why do you need your business value. And when they're having that discussion in front of the whole team, that's conversation and not the whole, the whole team usually doesn't get to hear, right, they usually it's like, oh, some ba went off the right requirements. And they understand the business value, because they were talking to the product owner. Now the product owners are standing in front of the entire team. And they're saying I want this because of this. And this is more important than this. And this is more important than that. And that that motivates the team. Because now they're actually looking at their customers. That is not like they had this Gantt chart that somebody, a project manager made up for them. You know, the whole team made up the Gantt chart, right? And so that, that now there's a passion, we better deliver on our promises. We just have this very transparent, conversational thing with our product owners, we're looking them in the face, or telling them if something's Big or small, or telling them you know, if that's in the right order, so that the accuracy of your your whole plan is so much better, because you're doing it in front of your business owners. And, and you know, I tell you, it's not often that you have i that we coached teams with multiple product owners, I'd say it's more the rare occasion. Most people we go into they have, they might have a team with one or two product owners, maybe one, but it's where we have like a sap implementation with 16. So and that's a good question. Yeah, thank you. I'm having trouble being the cameraman and whatnot. No, no worries. Questions. Really?

Greg, Connor, does that help? Kick those Yes. Okay.

Okay, so I'm missing velocity, I just wanna kind of recap a couple things I talked about. So the other important part of this is the ceremonies that we have. If I had extra time, I could go through these, but basically, that you close out a one or two week iteration by doing a show Intel, so you pull the entire team into a room, and you demonstrate working software. So you bring your product owners in your entire team in when we're done with our two weeks sprint, we got six points done their first iteration, now we're actually going to demonstrate the working software. So we're gonna pull up on a big screen or TV. And we're actually going to demonstrate what we actually built. Okay. And this is really important because it motivates the team. It's another it's a last opportunity for the progress a Yep, we love it. We've already showed it to some of our customers, and we're excited for them to get it. It also, you know, it gives you gives everybody a sense of seeing the whole, because often in software development, and particularly even in COVID times, you're working in your on your thing, I'm working on my story card, but I didn't get to see the other five story cards I got done in that sprint. So for me to see what Kevin did, and Jeff did, and Amy did write as coworkers, and actually demonstrate that in front of the customer is extremely important. We did we're working with the largest paint company here in Cleveland. And we were doing show until we were working on a global product for them. And the they were so proud of the work that we were delivering that we would do show Intel's for hundreds of people, they would have their entire sales team from around the globe be able to dial in to watch that show until in a big theater. And we're getting videos sent from the field like they would go out to like a paint, automotive paint paint supplier and they would shoot videos of happy users using the product. Right somewhere in Chinese. Somewhere in Indian so we we couldn't always understand what they were saying in the video but It the folks in the field that we're actually taking releases over software started sending in customer delight videos to motivate the team that, hey, what you're building is truly having an impact to our customers. So show and tell us your powerful, it's a positive, it's, it should be a positive time, that kind of brag about what you did for everybody to see all the awesome work you did, and to celebrate it. Okay. So now that we've done the show Intel, we're going to look at our velocity, we're going to update our velocity chart and say, Hey, we got six points done, we get 10 points done, and we're going to adjust our predicted velocity based on yet on what we did, we aren't gonna look for hero moments, there's a saying in Agile that, you know, just pre global warming that yesterday's weather that it's not, if we only got 10 points, we aren't going to get 20 In the next sprint, we aren't going to get 40 Like don't expect a miracle to happen. That team worked too hard 40, they worked as transparently as they could to deliver software. So I know that we wish we were going faster. But yesterday's weather, the velocity that we the number of problems, we're able to solve for whatever reason in the last couple of Sprint's that's indicative of the speed at which we're solving problems. So, if you're looking for hero moments, if you don't like this velocity, and there's a great video, I'm gonna, I'm gonna refer to at the very end of this talk that everybody here should watch. It's the number one agile video in the world, it does a great job of explaining velocity, product ownership, Scrum Kanban. Tried to get to that. So now that we've done that, now we're going to do a retrospective. So the retrospective is simply what worked, what didn't work, we put post it notes up on the wall, we say, you know, this, this went really well, this didn't go so well. And we, you know, kind of do that we do that with our product owners, too. We could, we could say things like, geez, you know what I needed to work with Amy, she was a product owner for these cards. But when we went to actually work on him, Amy wasn't around. So we actually went to do the work and we couldn't get a hold of Amy because she was out with a customer. And that that meant when we actually did the work, we actually didn't get it right the first time. So it's okay to talk about in the retrospective, how's our relationship with the business, what's working, what's not working as a team. Now that we've done that, we're going to update our target velocity, we're going to pull the cards and adjust the plan, right, and then people are gonna sign up, and we're gonna start the next sprint. So those are the scrum ceremonies super fast. I think that one of the keys to this is the product owners is 100% engaged with the story Card Writing, the prioritization, reviewing the work the show and tell us I think one of the biggest challenges when you go Agile is that is that we, the product owners don't realize how much more work is on them. Okay, we've shifted a lot of the work to the business, that they're just as accountable for our outcomes, that they need to be in the room with us. They need to attend the ceremonies, they need to watch us create a Gantt chart, right and see how complex it is to do that, and they need to get gain appreciation, appreciation for what we do. Okay? This is the video is going to mention. It's called Agile product ownership in a nutshell, by Hendrik nuber. Let me hit play just so you can see it real quick. Just so jot that down. That's about a 15 minute video. It's got millions of views. Most companies we go to this, this video gets shipped around to all the executives, and explains quite a bit about how you fix the team how you feed work in based on business value. It talks a lot about different philosophy charts, and how you fixed time fixed scope variable time variable scope, see does a great job of explaining different types of velocity metrics. And I highly recommend it. So we're getting very close to the end here on time. Yeah, we

have just just a few minutes left, there are a couple of questions on how much slide were yet. I said. That's Oh, great. So there's a question from from Linda about unfinished stories. How do you handle them? Does it bounce around a little bit? What do you do with things that you would call the hangover? It's always part of the process. Maybe How do you handle the unfinished work? Yeah,

so again, event once we get like three three, Sprint's done, we're just working on a rolling average of our velocity, okay? We're not predicting or velocity is that precise. So the fact that we're always gonna have cards hangover, that's just going to keep happening. And so that's, that's built into the fact that it was precise and we were just going to do the cards that we planned. And then if we get them done, everybody goes home. Now. We're all getting paid to keep working. We're all going to keep working so things are gonna keep rolling from Sprint, and when you start blending out, your velocity is like an average over three or four Sprint's it doesn't matter. Again if I'm gonna push you guys to study Kanban we were free gadgets playing class next week lean dog. The but we I like Kanban because I like cycle time better than the last He personally, because I think it's it's a continual measurement verse where with Scrum, you get your stablished velocity every two weeks and you keep averaging it out or cycle times and ongoing continual thing in Kanban. I like Scrum and I like Kanban. I like scrum one. I like the ceremonies of Scrum. I like some I like Kanban. Because it's actually, I think, more precise and Scrum is more metrics. There's more limits. But that's a different talk, where the questions we have

Does anyone else have any? That's a lot of it. There was a lot of side chat on the context switching prioritization of the work if you got different projects going on. Things like that. On a personal note, I don't know if anyone has also attended John's week long. Where were you calling it agile waterboarding hit? But I highly recommend it. Yeah, it was it was definitely worth the price was right to.

It's free. It's next week. Yeah, you can go to lean dog resources training. It's called Agile explaining the line. It's two and a half hours a day. We cover everything from, you know, agile, the scrum, the Kanban, to DevOps, design, thinking, testing, engineering, you name it.

I've tried myself a number of times, and it's fantastic. I always Yeah, ended up getting meetings scheduled do that work, but and have to be meetings, but I've participated on and off. But it's fantastic. Really appreciated. John, thank you. Alright.

Well, with that. Well, Jeff, did you look at your training, you're on the verge?

Yeah. Just very quickly, as John mentioned, he's got that I'm going to be sending out to everybody, an announcement about that. Announcement of other training classes. We got something from Project brilliant this morning about some things that are going on. So I'm going to be trying to send that out to everybody, not only in Pitt agile, but who've signed up for this particular conference. And, you know, just again, man, there's so much out there. And I know that there's a lot on people's plate. But if you can take advantage of some of these things, as you can see, I mean, I've been getting feedback that these sessions have been real helpful to everybody and drawn. This is another one. So kudos. Yeah, on the chat, a agile explained class note there. So yeah, please go to that. I also want that side chatter, you know, where I threw up a book that's on Amazon. It's like 99 cents on kindle a day. It's by former General Stanley, McChrystal, and and again, great, great discussion on how building teams that are consistent, really move things forward.

Thank you, Kevin. All right. Well, with that, John, we really, really appreciate your time. Keys. Everyone else you got about nine minutes to take care of business? And we'll we'll know you just got one more.

The survey on the site. I'm

sorry. Thank you. There is a survey. If you go back over to Huva you'll see a session. There you go. You can go and take it please do that helps everyone else quite a bit on this. Again, the session recording will be posted on YouTube as well. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Bye, everybody.


## Jon Stahl & Michael 'Doc' Martin - Agile & UX - Emerging Practices & Other CRAP

So today we're here to talk about agile UX. Wagner having to study for the past couple years and trying to practice. We did a lot of practicing with Jeff Patton, Salt Lake City. And I just want to help us learn more about UX, dog or both, or backgrounds or software development. So we were talking about us on one ad Now, the solution is that the interactive portion is going to be one of your three working practices with customers and having a successful.

So UX, formal definition that I found that Wikipedia, so it must be correct, right? Is the way that person feels about using a product system or service. And there are a number of influences that go into UX, including systems thinking, engineering, psychology, obviously. And we looked at us with a number of practices that that many of us are already familiar with. We've got user research, which a lot, a lot of us know is like personas. Sorry, officer user modeling. UI design, we look at UI, we find his high fidelity prototypes, right. And these days we do when we do an either prototype, craft, part of the conversation comes in here, things you need to keep in mind, we're developing prototypes, especially high fidelity, your last three that we'll look at everything from contrast to repetition, to the alignment of the elements, to actually the proximity, the elements to one another, right, where's I go, how's it drawing cetera. But it turns out that you can actually keep most of these things in mind, even when you're doing low fidelity prototypes contrasting. But reputational and complexity also come into play, even as you get into more agile practices, and test task analysis which we have mapped to use cases.

Okay, so we're at an adult conference, so sure, about the race to but he says that set of values and principles is what really causes UX and agile that people think about add value Mascaro. Think about the developers QA now, how did we actually get into the hole? So we started to use the values, we find that the most people are structured like this, they're pretty linear, right? They're centered around the whole team, the product owner and partners working with us to be able to development Yes, different every studio typically has in between person, some customer us is working with the business, some customers develop, both to relate various, what really changes whenever I had the opportunity to play here is that we really encourage whole teams when we're standing teams, that's awfully easy. In Vegas, for various reasons. There are several challenges. The first was back to this value of the manifesto, right. Working software, Congress, the documentation, a lot of us practices, high fidelity prototypes, good documentation upfront, right. So right away, you happy to hear so most often I start adopting more lightweight things like low fidelity prototypes. As developer, most people are frustrated when your team comes up with some really sexy and then you can't really, because the technologies that are really challenges that notion. The other thing that is county is how you respond to change resulting in. A lot of times, if you start looking at your whole process, it's hard to fit your whole process into a two week window. If you're doing a lot of us a lot of user experience work. Looking at two weeks, right, right now story parts. It doesn't consider some of the progressive elaboration that you have to work in Am I going up front is a rich user experience when they get there. So our suggestion overcome that online. So the cool thing about Kanban has Hold on a topic to celebrate, is it actually you focused on seeing the whole process, she actually looked at all the states from the early stages of initial progressive elaboration all the way to delivery to production, so it doesn't account for just two weeks. And more importantly, what I really think about combine is allows me to do it lets me establish metrics. So I can measure how long cars are staying in different states and use that data to justify perhaps adding more USF. This is the other towns right. This is the most organizations we come across, don't have enough emphasis on UX. You're just not enough of their facility specialists. There's a handful of them. It's hard to find good ones, right? And so because of that, you said Alright, well how the heck am I gonna put it Yes, person, I became better yeah, how am I gonna go to USD one every game because you're really comparing learning, getting feedback about your skills, you need at least two people in every role on every team. Okay? That's contrary to Scrum, we believe in larger teams, with a squad with 20 people on the team. So we have these two people in every role. Add us here, now your team size around maybe 14 to 22. So typically, that this is the big problem is that we just don't find out you have to get your strategy this is they want to keep them in a specialized role. And everybody fights for, right. And that just that doesn't support the whole team mindset. So this car here, got you the case? What is the advertiser USC, your company? So it really depends on what kind of software solutions you're building? Right? If you're building a solution that's completely used for internal folks, and you're forced to use it? Well, you don't care about us, right? Now, the phone's gonna ring as a call center application, they have to go through screens when we made a good design or not. So we are gonna put us people on this, we're gonna make it look great. This is just our people, right? We got to think SBS, right? Everybody should be productive, not just your customers, and they should feel good about the software that you're talking. But boy, you know, we put a face to try to assess the company. Right away, we can tell you and your staff and US people at all. Okay, if you have an application that's easy to change. So, yeah, the theory I can not like my email provider and so on. Right? You have a bad experience on Google search, you know, Yahoo search or go to, right, so it's really easy for me to change product solutions, those companies care more about us, okay, because the risk is high if they have a bad experience, so off to go somewhere else. So this is one way of thinking about us and your organization and understanding of what you have to pay this.

We're gonna talk about three merging agile UX practices that we're actually seeing in the industry as as we're as we're bringing the UX teams and delivery teams together, what are the things that are happening, right, and we'll go through each one of these in a little bit more detail. But the first one is that we see quite often as user story mapping and story mapping. And that is, is common, but we're seeing some new aspects to that. The way that we're actually working through it, especially with UX involved, right. So this really becomes kind of the initial stages, progressive elaboration, doing some really lightweight story maps. And then we're seeing you know, what influences Lean Startup, what we've been kind of referring to as test versus design, where you're doing really lightweight, testing, again, our interactive session soon will actually go through an exercise where you guys are actively participating in these things. And then finally, something that we're seeing that's really cool, is flash builds. And this is really is real time design, delivery, where on the spot at the need with the customer, perhaps in the store, or in the field software is being built and delivered, right there. So no design upfront No, right? It's just happening in real time. So first one, you've just started mapping, right. And again, most folks, I'm sure, some flavor of story mapping. But what we're gonna go through today's exercise, where what this really means is we're describing the story and really kind of a lightweight overview. Very quickly looking at how does the user interact with this are what are the demands? What are the needs? Here to go back and take a look at the flow of the work and understand where are the pain points for users? What's what is the stuff that affects them the most. And that would be basically highest value for us to solve for them. Make sure keeping a focus on customer value, and then actually converge on solutions. So we're gonna we're gonna actually use some more of the lean startup approaches to actually test hypotheses and figure out what's the right solution for this problem.

So it's a three step process Doc is explaining right capture the story, we're gonna talk about one of the painful or wasteful points in user experience. And then we're gonna prioritize and swarm on what kind of person So has anybody heard and we're going to be communicating connected consumer. Okay, so this is like I said, Gen X, Gen Y, right? This is not a focus, right? This is people like you guys, you probably have a laptop. I always have technology fingertips. You're using it all the time. You every time you make a buying decision, you might say, Okay, well, hey, check this out. Now, give me the Arizona review. Let me figure out if this iphone four Siri thing is even worth it. I'm gonna leverage my social networks, get feedback from them, right. But I always tend to check online and I leverage these mobile devices as much as I can. Almost every every kid being born today is going to be fitness persona. Almost Every company today has to start thinking about this because if you're communicating connected with your customers, right, they're gonna they're like, likely. So how many people can have robot here? Right? Yeah, sure. So. So it's really important that this this generation lead generation, this this persona that I just consider. So for today's exercises, you guys are gonna be yourselves, I guess, since you're all CCCS. Excellent. So, our scenario here, we're gonna talk about story rides. You didn't interview with Doc? And I say, No, tell me how you actually do your laundry. Get and I've never done it his way. He's crazy. But that was the whole value the exercises? Yes, this process, you're doing laundry, I have mine. So we started to take the handle person. So I'll just tell you how to decline. Right? He started describing his process, right? So I

mean, our house is full bowl bowl for us, right and the meat we recognize the need to do a load right? Something gets out of pants or clean underwear, whatever might be the right side actually do a load of laundry. So then there's there's different stations around the house, people throw the dirty laundry. So to grab a basket, walk around, get, you know, whatever clothes are dirty. And then actually carry those down stairs to laundry room. So it's kind of a pain in the ass. But but, you know, take those downstairs, go ahead and load up the washer. You know, turn the washer. It's pretty self explanatory, right? So now I gotta go do something for a while. Right? We're pretty close to actually like get done. Wait for the buzzer. Right remember to check Washington recycle empty the Washington to drive sharp the dryer, fold clothes. And I actually leave in there until people actually come get him. It's kind of a high level, right? So especially walk through like, Okay, here's, here's how I actually, you know, to do laundry in my house. But then their job is to walk it with me a little more detail. Right? So, you know, I will so the adults need something and the kids need something, you know, or and I have to determine it's like dark meetings or lights because I sent her an out session restraint practices as well. We still separate our laundry into dark mediums and lice. Like what the hell do is throw man who cares? Right, and then you know, I got, do I get to dry or not. And, you know, just make sure the washer settings are correct as much after the detail says I have to go through in order to get the load of laundry done. But so after going through this kind of interview process, really lightweight map of you know how I do laundry. Right.

Okay, so now we're gonna do it coming in here. Yeah. I'm excited. We have six or seven stations. 123456. stations up the back. Yeah. So why don't you get yourself organized and have like six or eight people, maybe? Table per group?

Any place that there's a piece of piece or two paper on the wall? And there should be panglong supposed to those?

Yeah, so this is your scenario, okay, you guys are CCCS we have so many of your team to be that CCC to the person you're gonna interview. And like I say, This scenario is going to be just shut them off. Just reopen the gaps or you log in what happens? I want you to describe your shopping experience. The time you go through the checkout, you walk back out the door. And once you interview one person, your key afternoon person knows that story. You don't have any questions about that.

So what are you going to ask you to do and don't go overboard with this. I've watched teams go forward. This is kind of asking the question so they said Well walk into the store double and and then don't you talk to the service person. Right? Have them tell you what the actual story is. Right. So I'm looking for a little more actually

I already know what I'm gonna buy when I go into

Do you always hear the same story?

No. I usually go

to the store then go to Amazon. Yes. Okay. Yeah.

How would you find that? No questions. We have two solutions for that.

Have I learned from Stefan already? No. Okay, so I'm enquired by the so should I say I am looking for an article of clothing they then asked me preference of type or material and I respond appropriately they then direct me to worse when you appropriate sizes of my request and asked if I would like to try something on it again I didn't say that so he started chain and

then you go to the sales rack

that was very good. Yeah. Okay, good.

Yeah, so what do you want me to write down? Out of all that this is an answer.

But what did you ask that he said yes to

communication words that you look for particular brands? Not just anything that's on sale? So a general question would be how do you choose what you want you're interested in? Yeah. If that's true

then I guess it's a moot point. Just items on sale is the end of that that training before

you go to the store? No. So you don't have pictures like you do any research before you? Store? You said you go to Amazon sometimes

it's usually on demand clothing shopping?

Yes. I wouldn't make sure you get to you can say here that so at this point, she's already in this little cemetery picnic. So you really want to ask about these points are going to flow in here. Like for me, I walk in the store and we're supposed to just like perfumes, for example. So there's things that turn your attorney around. Right? We'll hear about that. I'm just wondering are we going over whether or not you're familiar.

Looking at your op ed styles,

sometimes I want to work with

the phrase right

so is Anna Rondo here? Should we do like a separate posted for styles or colors? Or Is

America I guess, okay, yeah, you guys go if you want to sit down again. So, you really got to start your story, right? You listen, you just had to tell their story. And you decompose the car so you can learn more and understand the experience? Break it down. Okay, now we're going to move on so we were talking about pain points, right? So our job is typically to apply technology right to improve things. So will we want to know how this experience where everything is painful for you. Okay, and you know, laundry example here so,

right so So in that example, this is the main points first of all was actually determining one three do a load or not, sometimes it's too damn late and then and then figuring out what exactly we need to get together right. So that was my first pain point. Really, the second one was around loading the washer. Just there's a lot of steps there that can be washed is really complicated, right? Actually, you know turning down thing is actually going to push 1000 objects ever again right that was that's difficult and then really waiting to hear that buzzer remember to check that the load was actually does sitting there you know, I've already got three loads done in an afternoon and I forget and I'm kind of I'm kind of dork right

okay, there we go. Right.

So whenever relevant each of these pain points and we're thinking about the communicating connected consumer you know, we looking at what's what's what's the most made what's the most critical to that or less area that we could help them with the most so already that

was waste? Yeah. What's the most wasteful part of this whole process? Yeah.

And for me, frankly, it's it's that exact wherever you check the washer, so the waiting around, right, that's where the most waste happens. I can lose an hour easily I get I get into a Doctor Who and just leaving this, right.

Okay, this is a quick exercise for you guys. So now, I want you to go back to your process flow and ask the same questions. What was the most painful process? What part of this part did you hate the most out of that? Okay, and or which part can we have? It's really wasteful for you really a lot of time or efficiency or you didn't get your bot through your mind. Just five minutes to do that there. Isn't he's been good over laying around. He's a big developer, you can talk to one of the pain points. Or even just circle some workers.

You got them all told you got a time go ahead and read them. So five minutes for this. Yeah.

So the top one, two or three pain points how that process

I'm familiar and I have a search for things that takes a long time to get

you have to find somebody else check out can be especially do you want to try that? So a subsection of the checkout processes not enjoyable? Would you highlight the entire process or just

skip all that probably is the highest level but but will seek to understand exactly what part and experience but we're gonna do next is we're gonna say, Okay, now how can we apply? Can we apply technology at that? Knowing that you're pursuing a type of CCC? So how can I leverage mobile technology or something or some way to the depth personal reach for that facility? and leverage it? Right? Yeah, but usually at the top, okay.

Okay, so now what we've done is we've we'll go where this is an example of a document. Okay. So we went through, I think I described my buying experience. And for me, the biggest pain point was that door lock, right. And I could talk to somebody that probably didn't want to talk to him, right and beg them to open up the door because they don't trust me. Right. So that really annoys me. And it really is wasteful, because I'm almost have to just take myself to return policy that I'm going to have to go through that untrustable process. So the other point here was right. Sizing thing, right, you get the wrong size. And then you go to you open and sock and yeah, so that was my pool points. Like me about that?

Find? So is this similar to what you guys came up with?

With this solution, this issue is there. Right? Yeah, sorry. So that just shows you how many different personas and different people have different buys through the gap. Okay, so you can make your own good. Alright. So see if you get the point here, all right. So when you describe the story, lightweight tools, you have some good dialogue, the pain points, you focus on customer value to eat. Everybody here came up with different value points, right? They weren't all I doubt, maybe one or two or even the same. I know because I walked around, listen to you guys. But the whole point is, right. There's a lot of different thought process. Just as simple as you have your damn clothes going along and check it out. Okay, the next step is really getting it. Okay, now we have a pain point. What are we going to do? We need to figure out how are we for solutions? We are a technologist. Can we apply technology? Right to somebody who's the CCC, which you guys, like your CCCS have lots of different generations, velocity Hawkman apply technology. So now we're gonna do the second thing that we're seeing an emerging was the lean startup.

Yeah, I don't think there's any additional hands on. There

will be a little bit there will be a little bit but Yeah.

That'd be fine. Right. So how many folks you're ready. Okay, all right. Cool. How many folks here are familiar with the concepts in the startup?

So, so he started up right was written by Eric Ries, Eric Ries, actually is is I'm not sure what it was. I think he is a software developer. And what Eric discovered through trial and error in his life was that the things that he was applying towards software development, also applied towards starting a business and a Watching a concept, right and eventually lead actual into an entire approach, Eric, but only miss that none of the stuff that he talks about in his book is really new or unique is just, I use them out there. He's just kind of coalesced into one volume and say, this stuff worked for me. And I think it worked for you. We've had we find it very practical. And we actually apply it quite a bit as well. And the basic, the basic fundamentals are build, measure, learn. And I'm sure that sounds pretty familiar to most nationalists right. Now, it goes backwards. But this is what this is what we do, right? So fundamental concepts, you form a hypothesis. So you've got some idea, right? That some some fundamental concept you believe is valid, it might be that you are looking for a new online chat experience. I don't know if that's true or not. But that's your hypothesis. So they look at what's the latest possible way that I could validate that and get feedback right away? Right? What's what's the least expensive way to do a fact? Do I even need to build software to the valley? And if I don't need to, I probably shouldn't, right? I mean, the building software costs money. If I can figure this out for for a cheaper way, I should do that, save myself some time, save themselves some money, make sure you're actually measuring your results. So he looks at and how can you quantify you know, the information is coming in to help actually validate or invalidate your hypothesis, and then actually iterate towards what he what he refers to as a minimum viable product. So what you're doing is, you throw hypothesis, you measure information, that proves that your hypothesis was correct or incorrect, you make adjustments based on information, try another test, you just iterate your way towards a actual product that consumers are telling you being interested in.

Okay, so we have this word test verse design, you have to have an accurate number would be it. So maybe your last scenario shocking. Okay, obviously, as you see, instead of the hypothesis was, would I be willing actually touched something to door party dissolving? Technology in some fashion to actually get that? Okay, so this is for a half a good color to? What's the simplest way you

have somebody that you've texted to who then does the login? And see if people text so that we don't write software? You just test it right then and there with somebody's?

Text? By running there? So I don't know if there's only one good answer that

there's there's one that exactly matches, there's one

exactly matches happens to be balls. You get to pick your hat here. Yes, this will be right, we just put a poster on the door. We'll show you a video later of companies that do stuff like this. And they put a big sign up like innovation in progress or, you know, soft, softly in progress. People are freaked out by factors. Most of those they're a little bit more open to the fact that she said, There you go. And he said, I'm gonna put that up, and I'm gonna just watch how many people actually are going to have to pick up their phone and start texting attacks it. Okay, we're gonna go rope. Okay, Dad, listen, hey, they said, We're people who have to be willing to do that. Okay. Now, if they are willing to do that, right, there's a crazy business value there to the extracted. One, the trust factor goes away, Hey, I've actually even given you my personal information. I think it has a sales clerk can tell, hey, somebody just went into that room. Right? If they do still some nice, you have their phone number now. Okay, so there's the business value of this customer by there's, you know, customer service, there's all kinds of different things that you can get out of that. So often your point like why we solve that pain point. Now we want to do business value for the customer, we can actually communicate to that consumer will give you data, they're going to engage with you. So you have more data than if they didn't engage with you. Right? And you can learn from that data. So that's, that's an important example as make sure that because now you have to build that and now you have to say okay, is it worth it? Is it customer value that we should actually pay someone to actually make that happen for real? Okay, and then get that project Okay, so

hey, Like, right in our scenario was size, right? So I got close to the amount of change, I put them on, and they just is equal size. Right? And it's pain, I actually got to take the head off, I record my clothes back on the handle where I've got to now talk to salesperson. Right? So what can you do guys now? How would you solve the wrong size problem? Right? What? What's a hypothesis that you could come up with? And how would you test that? Just to help solve this wrong size problem.

Back to your little area there in reverse for a few minutes. Remember, you're a CCC? How can you apply technology? mobile technologies, technologies? And how can you help with that? Size? up specific. It has to match with the other cells. Remember what symptom the cheaper thing you can do? Because there's so don't architect paper in this?

Video Wait a minute. Right. Right. Yes. But they do have their Oh, yeah, they will. Depending on numbers. Yeah, I mean,

there's only factory technology

or a light switch. Or you can like, your wife whatever size they want the bigger size that one they have interface.

A little bit of a troll, because then you still have to interact with someone. You might not have to address. The door. Maybe that's like, that would be

a sign you hang please bring?

Yeah, maybe.

All right. So

everybody got it done. Okay, you guys go back to your seats, because we don't have any more interactions.

So a couple of years looking for maybe problem teams who wants to share what their solution was? The

best solution? Yeah. Yes, the microphone.

Our solution was to have a sign in there to say text for assistance to get new sizes. And then you could have the source system come in as um, get all the information as opposed to the person who's trying on clothes to have to convey all the information through technology, and then the sorts of shape could go grab the clothes and bring them back. And our test for that was the number of checking the number of people who did that, versus the number of people who went into the end to try stuff on rejected something and then grab something of that same style, have a different size to bring back in

a solution or grab all these animal panalytical people?

Sure, we were thinking that we would also have a sign or people to Text Only this time, they would text a picture of our code, along with some message saying what they want different about it maybe size 34 or in blue, something some delta from that markups. Then, essentially, you could scan the barcode, figure it out, bring it over.

There's no winner, but your closest solutions. We have another one. All right. Well, yeah. So we decided that the basic solution would be just the same, to say yes, legalize, give any assistance. Okay, all right. So

our hypothesis was similar for coders, right. All right. What could we get a somebody to scan the barcode right here you similar technology. So maybe we can put an eye. Hang on, I've had them all we know they're comfortable with iPads and tablets. And maybe they can just say bigger, smaller. So you have the code, or one of the people if you put it up there and they scan it, and if you Oh, it checks inventory systems that we don't have a large relationship with your house. Right. So we guess we can close the sale, even if we don't have an SOC. So this was just an example. We can build that out and a lot of technology behind it. You have to pick up our goods or an inventory system this season was still there. Yes, it

was funny, because we thought something very similar to that. But then we thought was a little expensive for us to put in place. Start with just enough people.

Yeah. So all those ways are valid, desperate incrementally. So there's no right answer, but you you got the idea, right? It has to be simple. It has to be some it requires your student crazy. I mean, you can go as far as to our idea whenever usability, so we want to know what you took in? Yeah, we're gonna slay the bar goes up or down or, or whatever, right? You could get crazy, but you can't test that and implement that. Right off the bat. You can't refactor too much. So that's an example of customer design. So you can see, here's the customer, right? Here's the business side. So again, can we get the funnel? Right? Is the ROI there? Yeah, thinking about both perspectives all the time. Okay, there's a way to build this gap. So anyway, stop. That's a perfect example of how we have now versus after the test. And we actually happened just in case, we're no good, and it was way too expensive. And we just can't do that. We'll see.

All right. So yeah, we were talking about, you know, farming hypothesis, and coming up with tests to validate and to help influence your design, right? Yeah, those are all those are all kind of, from me, startup. Joshua, Curiosity was kind enough to Damascus, myself, to actually look at the common agile practices that we're very familiar with, and kind of map them as best he could against the Lean Startup practices, just to show that there's actually a lot of similarity and commonality between these things. Many of these are pretty good. So we just think are a stretch. But if you want to know more about this, you can you can search for Joshua and find this on his website.

Okay. We move on to the third topic that we see people get up. Sounds like one of the questions you need to get an answer to we're coming up with low cost hypotheses is how much

money are you willing to spend? If the answer to this question

was you have to figure out how much money you're willing to spend it the answer the question? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And here's the cost of everything, right. So the cost to get the answer, and it's costing us by building it, you're absolutely right. So the beauty is it we tend to jump right into the technology? Sounds good. Let's build it right. We're testing acti storage, all customers and other ways of real product examples where they, that's really crazy things, high technology and solutions. 100 million dollar products he tested. Really, really, really lightweight, really hard, and incredible labor cost. Buying herbs make it actually look like they've already built the software. And today's definitely both sides. Okay, so we're gonna get into this video now. So as long as clutch bills were the guys knew that he was a friend of ours. Jeff had no sales practices are involved in this as well. We've got some pretty cool stuff. I wish I had popcorn for you, Louis dairy.

So our apologies to anyone from the gap as we start this Yeah.

At round the North Shore innovation lab experiments, we will have an idea and we'll find a way

we didn't test first. This room we use a different difficulty with it and.

We work on one weekend experiments somebody will have an idea and we'll find a way to figure out how to prove the idea of how to work and this week the innovation lab is going to be building an iPad app with customer feedback after you go through each we wanted to work on store to make sure that you're getting customer feedback as we work so that we were never working on anything that wasn't valued by the customer and only doing things on average. So we'll be building a feature and testing it until we get to the point where we have something that's good enough that we can just leave and leave, I've had mine and have this new thing that customers can use. This is the world's first Flash Builder. It's a flash mob where software team shows up, it builds application at a price location. So the Nordstrom Innovation Lab and we're at the auction store, downtown Seattle, right now the team is just setting up their equipment is we're gonna build an iPad app that helps customers pick the best pair of them, we really don't know what the features are yet, we're gonna use customer feedback as we go along throughout the day and the rest of the week in order to build. So the next thing we're gonna do is user story map. So we're going to sit here and see another outline all the steps to customer take. And actually even beforehand, Holly advice lessons like what are the different things that they might do and how that process might change? If you have something different, we will actually dig into what we have to build and support that process. So

now that we've done a mapping, what do you do a paper prototype, and something that we commonly do in the innovation lab is a great way to show what we'd like to do in a rapid prototype that we can easily throw out change alter, based on the customers, building individual paper slides and our user experience specialist. So we'll bring the prototype to a customer and say, Okay, I have this app. And this is a paper version, like you do kind of use it like you would normally use an app and you can press things interact with them. And then she'll change out the pages based on how the customer uses it. So it's similar experience to the iPad, only an analog version. So it's a two and we have our first working prototype of this app. And how it works is it take my first person license picture, all right, and then I want to compare it to this other paragraph right here. This on the picture, I can just pull these up like this, see which one I like better.

Selling KYV I've been talking to people and doing paper prototypes, we've been coding, building an iPad, we take a stab at something we looked at the paper prototypes they put together might take one at a time, coming forward and grab the most important feature and start implementing it. The really cool thing with this flash middles is that we have actual real customers just today, we deliver four or five different separate features, and I've delivered a swap the iPad itself should go and talk to a customer. And send this letter I had feedback from real customers about this thing that has changed how we did the next thing. It's been really, really great watching day to day, what they've been doing the team to get all the feedback from the salespeople that feedback the salespeople gather from the customers. And it's really an interesting process to kind of come in. On Tuesday, we had no idea what this look like. There's an idea that somebody had to say people take a lot of pictures of themselves and sunglasses and be cool, we could show them side by side to help them make the process better. And that was the idea. They came in. And he built an ability to literally on the spot throughout each day. And by now we actually haven't had a functioning app they go through very intuitive to help look at themselves and make the some less selection process easier, which is pretty cool to watch. So yesterday just like last fire for Nordstrom checkout or progress and she happened to put on polarized glasses, and then held up the iPad in portrait view and was surprised that she couldn't see anything black, we figured out that polarization of the iPad running up and down and the polarization of the glasses running vertical, cancel each other out you don't see anything. But if you turn iPads or landscape you see perfectly fine because the polarization of this UI is fine. Okay, so it was pretty good vice in the store. She just happened but a polarized glasses. And so today, first thing we're going to do is switch into a landscape design and then lock in the aspect ratio of iPads so customers and sales people just naturally pick it up and use it landscape and not trying to go.

Okay, so I'm going to show you what we've been working on the last five days, we've added quite a few features of the week. Take a picture multiple pictures of the customer. The first one, you can see a monitor and then take a second and do a side by side comparison of each class next to each other. So the future where you can rename the picture because we heard from salespeople is a customer trying on quite a lot of glasses, it's helpful to be able to know what order they were taking it in and also rename if you want with a brand or some distinguishing feature of the class. Another feature we added was the ability to zoom and zoom in and really get a good detailed look at the brain side by side. Also to see one of the pictures larger if you want to just interview my friend. You can flip the camera view as well face it forward. So the assessors you take a picture of it this or flip the camera. So take the picture Have yourself is that at the end of it all, we have a new customer, which just erases all of the images and allows the salesperson to start with a new customer,

or just trying to put the final touches on the app. And they said that when we wanted to compare, again, it was unclear where the issues were coming from. And if so, the animation here is trying to solve that problem, make a little more clear what's going on. One of the challenges the software's what you've done, right? And I think the answers really depends on how much time you have at least the most part, they've got time. So so there's time boxed to a week, and we did a week's worth of work, it seems like what we have now something that makes us happy and address the main problems and something that we can track and measure son. So we call that a day, the

application has developed so far, everything's finished everything that we asked for, and even the little roadblocks and glitches that we had stumbled across as being used the app during the week has been solid. And I think that it's going to be really easy to be able to implement into your sale. And I think that we're going to find a lot of success with application, whether it's via a selling tool for us, or if it goes public into a downloadable format, whatever happens generally.

So it looks like you have a project. Right? Yeah. Fun. I mean, you talk to everybody on the team, tell you what the rules were. An important part was, you know, they've always said, Hey, us, Andre, that everybody in this room would do something, or we will lose 500 grand for a week and this. And at the end, we'll see what the value at the end and measure how many people are using the app, whether they want to keep adding additional features for that we've got enough minimal viable product out there that we can ship it out to all of our stores. So it's always adding face to face, face to face, face to face collaboration, iterations time off. Working on the most important things is value first. Working software.

Right, but we didn't skip. I mean, we saw we saw, you know, prototypes, we saw, you know, actual some, you know, some good user experience diagrams, we saw, you know, then the UX and and Dev, delivery and customers all involved together all at the same time.

And we talked to the folks who were on that team, and they did a show it is a seven minute clip. But the US people were pairing with a developer, a prototype to see if this is what we need to build ASAP, right next to him as a right may look at and leverage as much technology, functionality and so much waste in that process. Okay, so this is what we cover today. You know, what changes what we do? And these are three practices that we see as emerging, that we're trying to do more with, we work with, we're trying to really break down that whole UX to Agile confusion about how they fit in teams.

And that's it. It's time for the question and answer. But comments. In the middle available anywhere.

We have the slides available. Yeah, yeah, we'll work with the organizers to make sure that the slide deck is available via the site. And we'll also have it on our website. So SlideShare site, all of our presentations, video, post processing the data

on your site? So great. Question.

Sorry, I missed the middle part of your presentation. So you may have covered this, but how do you whenever you're doing your iterative development, and you're everything very beginning, you talked about using low fi wireframes, in order to be able to sketch out the design without having to do a lot of big upfront design. How do you design your interaction model? How do you how do you handle that? As part of the interact? iterative process is, you know, sometimes my experience has been sometimes if I get too far down the line, and I don't actually have the model that I that I want, or I'm building pieces, but I didn't know how that's going to lead from where I'm at where I need to go.

We didn't cover that today. So the question was, how do you build your interactive model? We just shared some Problems and Solutions, the three things that we see an emerging for that when we do meet, we do feature mapping. And we do feature decomposition to actually do a similar thing here with most of us. We're watching out the features and the highest value features of customer one below, it will actually lay out the composition of the stories and we look at what's the interaction, and we actually draw it down to the thread through that we take painters tape on the wall, we say, Okay, this is one interactive experience. So to get the minimum viable product for this person, we need to have these interactions. So we actually just posted those painters, didn't we call them out? Okay, should we focus on one interaction model at a time, but we didn't cover that today here. Okay, maybe

you had craps enough to look like an acronym? What was that? Oh, yeah. So I covered it fairly early on, is I'm gonna look at it to remember all of them. So.

Does anybody else know off top their head? Because I can? I can't remember. Yes. Yeah. contrast, repetition, alignment, proximity. Right. So that's basically taking into consideration when you're assigning any type of user interface just you know, what draws guy where how much information is too much is not enough, right? How are things aligned and how I posted each other on the screen.

We really just wanted to put over crap in the title in case you have questions, Thomas. Thank you very much.


## Business Agility Conference Midwest - Obeya - A Systems Thinking Approach to Business Agility

Good morning, everyone. Yeah, so a little bit about me. I'm like Charlie said, startling dog 11 years ago. And so I've been doing this a long time started kind of before the manifesto was extreme, extreme programming. I was up in Cleveland, building a couple of agile teams got Nationwide Insurance kind of owned company that we're working for weird child company. And we basically asked asked at some point, hey, can you come help us transform nationwide? And we have people here from nationwide. Anyway, okay, cool. All right. So most people know about us because lien ducks were on a boat and Cleveland since 1892, steamship, um, if you ever come to Cleveland, you're welcome to stop by we have free parking, we got toys, we got a bar. got creative space. So we're right by the rock'n'roll Hall of Fame tied to World War Two submarine. So that's where we're at. And that's where we do a lot of not only coaching, but in teaching, but also product development. As I said, Before, I started this really with Victoria insurance, title insurance, and then nationwide. And when I was asked by name Srini, with the previous CIO, to actually help transform nationwide wages, I basically said, Well, I don't know how to do that. But I know a lot of awesome people in Columbus are also passionate about business agility, and being agile. So I came down to Columbus, I hung out with all the other my co workers that really passionate about this, and we formed a change agent team. And we came up with a plan on how we're gonna try to transform nationwide. And I spent the next six years doing that, I had so much fun doing it that that I eventually left and started lean dog 11 years ago, and that's what we kind of do for a living. So this talk is going to really be about, we're not only what worked at Nationwide, but how we, over the last 11 years have continued to hone the practice, around lean and systems thinking to actually to transform company. So this is gonna be kind of our recipe for success.

And I'm Brian link, I'm really just kind of here as John sidekick. Today, he talks a lot faster than I do. So I'm gonna let him do most of the talking. I have a kind of a long background in working in consulting, I was fixed time fixed price consulting. So it forced me to really learn how to manage scope really well before I can even spell agile. And then I kind of transitioned that into working as a CTO of multiple startups, including Digg out in San Francisco. So that kind of forced me to be really good at continuous delivery. I was learning agile before I even got into it. But since about 2006, or seven, I've been working on nothing but Agile projects, a lot of transformations, big companies, small companies, I've lived all over and have much like John started as a kind of a technologist who stumbled into this, but was always passionate about the process and the business.

So okay, so these are kind of the lean dog, eight steps to towards business agility. Alright, so as I mentioned before, I'm lean dog or typical clients or foreigner, and up in it, we do work with smaller clients, but typically, you know, it's kind of agile at scale. You know, I think that that one of the most valuable things I learned nationwide, and it for those years, still nationwide, was weird. First started a development center nationwide, we didn't, we were really kind of a Scrum and Kanban and XP, but we really weren't about Lean. So once we started really introducing Lean Thinking systems thinking, which is more of a management approach, right then is a process approach like Scrum and Kanban. Once we start embracing lean, and it really kind of held it together, I don't think we would be successful if we didn't do it. So. So my goal today is kind of walk you through our eight steps to business agility and how we go about this. So it's not that we don't I don't like frameworks, okay, it's less safe to add Nexus all. But what I think a lot of the frameworks miss out is it doesn't really consider your culture and your organizational design, okay. And so a lot of times when people implement a framework, they just want to drop it on their existing organization. And I think that's where I think that a lot of people mess up. So it's not that we can't come in to a safe implementation or something once it started, and try to correct it. And I'll talk about how we do that. But basically, I think that there's good goodness in all of this. But I think that how you start is the most important part of any, any, any transformation, do

you go to? The old way of thinking, right? It actually a kind of people think prescriptively. And so they latch on to the framework and think it's going to be a prescriptive answer to get them to the solution. The reality is, we're all stealing bits and parts of this for good reason, because there's great nuggets of knowledge and all the frameworks out there, but the trick is to customize it and deliver it in a practical way, which is what John's going to talk about. So

first step, and we created a bias. So what's an Obi? It's Japanese for big visual room. I started doing this talk in 2008. I caught a big visual room, and all sudden somebody at Nike called it a buyer. And then everybody loved it, because they love Nike, right? So it's funny how words mean things? Yeah, so. So basically, you know, I think that really, what we do is about systems thinking, how do we understand the current system? One of the biggest problems we have is that we're knowledge workers, trying to apply technology to provide business value and In the world that we live in, it's so complex, right, especially in a large scale organization. And so if you're at the company for a year or 20 years, you actually have a completely different understanding of how things get done within that ecosystem. Right? You understand the culture influence, right? How things work, right. And that usually the people that are most excessive, are really good at understanding the system and getting the system to work for them. And that's the culture so. So we basically start with information radiators. So So So basically, the problem with humans are that we want to agree with each other. Like, it's much easier to agree with someone to disagree with someone. So I can just look at you and shake your head and say, Yep, totally on the same page, right? Reality is, if we're off to spine a little bit, then what we think we're going to do next improve the system could be different, right? It doesn't take much but but your next step is going to be based on your current knowledge. So if we aren't at the same baseline for how we're going to start a business agility transformation, we can't get off to a good start, because we're going to disagree about how to get there. So we make things physical, right. And that's information radiators, we put things up on the wall, without realize we aren't on the same page. Now we can actually converge right? And we can see it, let's get on the same page, we all see it the same way. And so this is the first step of our business agility transformation as we build a big visual room. Right, once we all agree on and have a consensus exactly where we're at what the current state is, now we can create an organizational change plan, right? That makes sense that we all agree this is where we should start why we should start here, because there's many ways to go about your transformation, you're

going to see lots of overlap to visual thinking. They everything visual, trying to apply systems thinking at scale being practical.

So we have the Nickelodeon model, cat dog. And so we we bring in we call change agent team was exactly what we did nationwide. I came down here, I said, Hey, we rolled awesome people nationwide that believe in change and want to do this and and they're active learners, right? And then we apply the dogs and we're the cat dog team. Right. And that's kind of that's kind of our committee, right for making change happen. So in any culture, I don't know how many people are familiar with Rogers innovation Bell, but in any culture, you probably have, if you laid your orchard out on here, you have certain amount of people at your company, there are innovators, early adopters, early majority. So these people were waiting in line for the iPhone, right? For two weeks, when they know that if they wait two weeks, they can walk in and get one, right. So they want to be first they want to be on the edge. And then what happens is when you go through a transformation, you really need to get the tipping point and you get about 20% of the organization working agile, and humans will human. In other words, they will copy good things. Okay. So these early majority, once they see what worked for these guys, they're gonna say I want to work like they do. And they say, Okay, I want to work like these people do. These people would just run. Okay, they're your laggards. Okay. They're like, I can't work an accountability culture. So I think the biggest mistake that I see when people start their transformation, is when they drop a framework on top of organization and don't look at their organizational design. They're coaching the wrong people. Okay, if you just drop it on a team, and you have laggards and late majority, right, good luck, right? Because they're gonna be fighting and resisting, and everything that you're supposed to do, they're gonna be setting the example. And our job at lean dog is to build people and not be there forever. When I stack staff augmentation company, right? Our job is to kind of build your internal capability. So you have this energy, and you can continually grow and learn, right, without us. So I think that's probably the number one mistake, I see you in a transformation that amplifies

everything, if you have the people are passionate, actually being your champions, it helps the entire transformation go faster.

And so this is we're gonna talk a lot about a bunch of different customers. We're one of those m&t bank that Brian and I are working on. And lots of people in this room are actually. So we basically usually start with about eight or 10, change change agents. So these are the cats and not the dogs, right. And we facilitate, usually a three day session, and we actually build out visual walls, okay, these are the most important walls, you know, what's your business? What are your products, your customers, your markets, what's your organizational design, so your hierarchy org chart, we're gonna talk about your demand and your demand funnel, we're gonna understand your technology, we're gonna value stream, map out your work, right, and then we're going to create a change plan based on that we can do that in about three days, doesn't have to be perfect, we just have to start somewhere. So the goal is to get on the same page in three days. And after that, let's start Okay, and we'll iterate we'll adapt right where it's never perfect when you start. So the key is start right and keep revisiting it and just keep revisiting it on an iterative basis. We'll talk more about that. We've done crazy ones, like we didn't want it Cardinal Health down here for the fuse, we built 31 walls, okay, in about three weeks, right? It was a different goal, different outcome they're trying to get because they're creating like this innovation hub and, and the team was storming and norming trying to find out what are our roles, and how do we do this. So that one was a much longer engagement. But this pretty much works for anything. We can build lots of walls, but we start with this kind of first six. This is actually the one at Cardinal, the fuse. So you can see basically, it's pretty simple. It's brown paper, it's posted notes. Over here, you can see there's a Value Stream Map over here's their current org design. This is a future org design. So we had to reorg because it basically dropped a bunch of people in the building say B and have a div, right? Not the easiest thing to do. And here's a bunch of legacy code you have to maintain while you do it. Right. So the goal here was to say, Okay, what what is it? We're managing? What's our what's our purpose, our vision? How do we work? How are we organized? Right? And how do we kind of regroup and challenge our org design? It was implausible that everybody they dropped in the fuse was right people, right? Because they just dropped a bunch of people in there. So right away, we knew we had some roadblocks, right, which is, do we have people on the left side of that innovation curve? Or do we have people on the right side, right, and the right side is going to drag down the left? Okay. So this is an example. This is a card of Congress's subsidies visa, that's their big visual room, you know, it's in their cafeteria around a ping pong table, it was only space they had really doesn't matter. What's nice about that it's in a highly visible place, because everybody has to eat. Right? So that meant you got lots of input, and people are just standing around the walls absorbing information, contributing information about their current systems thinking and how work gets done it at Cardinal commerce, when

they're visible, people actually use the walls, which is great. Yeah.

There's another example of Bright Horizons, something Boston daycare childcare company, one of their walls, but again, it starts as cheap. It's easy. This is bright horizon, this is us mapping out their very first wall. So I always start with this wall. What's your business? Right? Why are you there? What's your outcome? How are you organized? What are your products? Right? It seems simple, like because if you work there, you know that, but if you're new to company walk in and you're on day one, you probably have to learn all this, right? So the beauty of this is actually when we interview people at companies, we actually walk them around this room, and they learn all about the company. Here's what we do, here's who we do it for, here's how we measure it, here's the work, here's how we're structured, here's how you fit into this picture, here's the technology you're gonna work on, right? So it creates this kind of integration to the company, right? And, and I typically tell people, if you walk them around this entire room, in the interview process, and at the end of it, they haven't told you how they can actually help just take them out the door. Because you just kind of expose your entire system. And they should be talking about how they can add value to that system. Okay, so it actually serves another purpose.

All right, most companies don't even know their own information. 40% of the whole company doesn't even know what their own company does. So this is a really great kind of level setting for them. Yep.

This is another example when m&t Bank, this is actually their business wall. So this isn't the it This is business agility. Okay. So the whole point, we know that for successful transformations, we want it to be business driven, not it driven, right. And so in this case, we mapped out 375 s VPS. Right, the CEO CIO said, hey, guess what, before we start this agility thing, we need to train the business. Okay. And when I say training the business like three hours with us, teaching them and the CIO teaching about what is what is agility? Why does it matter? Why are we going this way, making sure they understood that it really was about business outcomes moreso than it outcomes.

There's other four layers of management underneath this. This was just to help us understand who the heck is even heard the message yet? And are we getting them in all of the different divisions, so we can build up champions across the entire organization, start spreading the viral agile disease,

they get the CEO appear and works down. And we basically decided to take a top down approach to education. Right, so the same message was heard throughout every everybody that is about to go through this, because they had to recognize we're going to change the company culture. And that's a big deal, right? And nobody likes to say their culture is bad. So he told me going to change it. It's like, okay, well, what's wrong with what we have, right? So it was really an important message from the top and we'll talk about later, we actually use this as a there's you can't see it, but there's actually orange dots on everybody's name that we've actually taught. And then we have another kind of system for the people that we don't think are quite getting that we're getting to do more reinforcement and understanding what what agility is

that same deck that John put together to teach the executives agile, has been sent shrunken down and is now being something that I'm delivering to the 500, project managers and bas throughout the organization.

So noticing that, too, is our technology soup, right? Your business partners need to respect what we actually do. And they're seeing that it side of things. So this is mapping out system architecture, you know, different types of systems, all those blue things are different technology we've implemented provide business value. So it's not like your business partners have to know everything, but they have to have an appreciation for the complexity of the system. We do. So when they asked us to do something, we can talk about all the things that's going to impact and talk about risk and everything else else like that. So sometimes we even go a little bit further and we add all the technical debt. So we actually categorize the tech, we'll put up here how many helpdesk tickets to have what's the usability like? So any kind of metrics around the assets that we can do that we think we need to radiate to our business partners? Now, the demand wall, okay, so this is the biggest problem is that we're all knowledge workers, and everybody wants something from us. They wants to build something to do something. And the demand is usually out of control. It's always too much demand, not a supply. My time went to Ohio State. I got my econ and my engineering degree here. But the demand is, once you make it physical, you're like, holy crap, this is insane. Right? We have we don't have a way to say no, right? We don't have way to private prioritize value, right. So making a visible I mean, we've gotten to the point where we He printed every single helpdesk ticket, put it up on the wall, just to make a point, right? Hey, we know you have quality systems, or we don't even have good design systems. So our design thinking is weak. And that's why we have so many helpdesk calls. And that's why we, in our quality of our code is bad. That's why there's so many tickets. And that's just sold waiting down the business value we deliver. So business agility, right, it's getting rid of that waste and saying, okay, everything we design should work and not require a lot of support internal, external doesn't matter. The world's moving to microservices cloud, you never know what you're going to build internally, it's gonna be external tomorrow, because the market is constantly changing, right? And you have to be able to respond to that market, you have to be able expose your internal stuff for self service, like the way the world's going, okay. So this is usually the biggest wall in the room, excuse me ridiculous how much stuff's up on the wall. But when you put it up, you kind of laugh at it. And we say, Oh, this is stupid. Everybody knows it's dumb. We have way too many way too much work. We're just adding people to lists, right? As if they're going to get what they want, just because we put it on a list. And that's not true. Right? And so when you make it visible, you're like, why do we have so many big lists of things we could do? Right? When we don't have that much capacity is with the organization. Right? Now we next thing we do is we map out your workflow. So Value Stream Mapping lean, right, so how do things get done? Again, another recipe business agility is, what steps do we go through? Has worked come into our work stream has worked get out of our work stream? How do we push to production? How do we deliver value measure value? And when you start mapping this out, it also looks crazy. I mean, I don't think we've ever had a customer didn't have at least 50 to 100 steps,

they don't have a value stream just sitting around. Yeah.

So when you started doing this, you'll look at this a while this is kind of crazy. Look at all the different steps. And so again, business agility is and then flow. You heard that from some of the other speakers, right? How do we reduce steps because we created all this specialization in our craft. And we're knowledge workers. So there's, it's like the telephone game, we're handing knowledge off to the next person, the next person, next person, every single time we do that there's a cost of delay, right? There's waste. So how do we actually shrink this value stream down? So this is a core part of a transformation is understanding that we're going to actually shrink this value stream down, and we're gonna learn how to say no, and shut down that demand wall to saying yes to everything. And I'll get more to about the whole HR and finance implications of that later. That's, that's another value stream that looks really good, looks simple. But that was like six weeks of work to try to understand this one company of actually how their value stream map work. And it's constantly changing. They're constantly now what they're saying is, okay, well, geez, instead of handing knowledge off, can we create T shaped people and cross train people, so we don't have all these gaps in knowledge, right, so that we have to keep waiting on someone else to get the work done. Again, that's business agility. That's why Lean at Nationwide works for us. Because we also started having that waste of mindset and saying, every time there's a step, there's a delay in between, that delays that business outcome from actually happening, right. And why does that delay happen? Is it necessary? Or is it just bureaucracy and politics that got built into a large organization with lots of people trying to get things done in a world where they can't get everything done? Right, that creates a lot of waste in your system? So step two, so everywhere we go, Agile has already started. I mean, manifesto has been around since 2001, right? So at some point, they're either in the middle of an agile invitation or the beginning, but it's probably not working too well. So the first thing we need to do is containment. So, again, we're right now, if you dropped agile on your organization, you didn't look at your org design, you probably have people on the team that shouldn't be on the team. Right? That's kind of reality, right? And so now you're fighting that. So the first thing we need to do is contain it. So how do we do that same thing, we did it nationwide, we said, hey, we need a Florida building, or a boat or a BMW dealership or something cool, right? And we're going to have to take all the people to say they're going to add John, we're going to put them in the same room. Okay, now we can compare apples to apples, right? And we can actually do what we call mob mob coaching on them. So we're doing this at this bank, with open spaces with open spaces. We moved the CIO in his entire leadership team, right? We moved all the teams in that were trying to do it. We knew that we had challenges. Some of the people in the room probably weren't great at servant leadership, we probably didn't even have psychological safety, right? We had people that was just dropped on them. And so our hardest job isn't coaches aren't necessarily coaching you on agile and Kanban, and XP and all that. It's all the people issues, right? So by putting them all in the same room, we could actually say, Okay, now we're going to create this energy. And this is new, this is different. This is the new culture, right? And we're gonna make it small. So we did that. We also formed communities where we do all kinds of lunch and learns and you know, what do you

do and everyone gets to participate in it more. m&t originally wanted us to go around to their 50 buildings around Buffalo and coach them where they were, we're like, Dude, that's not gonna work. And so bringing them all together allowed just tremendous benefit of getting everyone on the same page and everyone hearing the same message over and over again.

And that's what happened that they swapped with a delivery center. That's what happened to Carter with the fuse where we started. We started like looking at it. That's why First thing we did was challenge the organization just cuz we're in the same room doesn't mean we have the right people in the room. We're organized, right? We're working. Right. Right. We have a lot challenges with that. So this was our containment wall. Right? How many teams are up here?

Yeah, it looks like just so many. Some of those are actually representing of multiple teams. We started off with 10, early adopters. And it kind of blossomed into somewhere close to 30. Because some teams turned into multiple teams. And they were like, Oh, we forgot about our support. dudes were like, well bring them over. And then all of a sudden teams are organically growing, which is a much healthier scaling strategy when you're just getting going on a transformation.

This is what the room looks like. So we got to comfortably combine. There was one of the teams whose names that I started off comfortably scrubbing analysis, it was Scrum, NASSCOM, okay. So this is what looks like it's just a big open floor. There's an energy when you walk on the floor, everybody's learning everybody's communicating, right, you can walk to the next team, see what the next team is doing. You can actually see, go to these, we don't call them lunch and learns what we call them.

What do we call them? Learning League, we changed the names a couple of different times, we just didn't like in the afternoon on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and we'll teach people story planning, or we'll teach them about better ways of prioritizing and estimating. And people from all over will just kind of pile in and listen and ask questions. We started doing a Lean Coffee once a week as well. So people can just show up and ask questions. This is like the beginning of an actual Agile community of practice.

So it's a learning culture, right? Not everybody's board has to look the same. We don't care. We're empowering the people to manage their work and learn, right? And so being able to walk over and see different boards in different levels of maturity across agile teams is a good thing, right? It's like, oh, what's working with this team? Humans will human look, if they find something better, and you have the right attitude and aptitude to learn, you're going to try that. Right, you're gonna experiment. And that's how you learn. And so it really is critical. We celebrate it, we take pictures on the way they call it the tree house. That's the space there. So people are coming to the tree house, people come and tour the tree house

you and tours, like guided tours now. So we actually hand them a piece of paper like, hey, go visit these teams and learn something at each teams can kind of take away from the experience, because we built so much momentum. There's always people outside that aren't part of it. Or they're like a little bit of angst is building, I think they're like they want to be included. They want to be with the cool kids doing the Agile stuff. And so we're trying to give them little nuggets, nuggets of things they can start doing every day. You could do stand ups, you could do retros you can do all these things, even if you're still having to follow your old, you know, regulated business waterfall process. Okay,

so the next thing we do establish vocabulary. So again, that's why when we went off site with the cats, then we didn't call them cats. We're salmon Creek. But we went off we wrote a playbook we wrote 21 agile tea leaves, this is what we this is our vocabulary. So you can't have a consultancy, even like lean dog drop a vocabulary on you, we will actually educate you on what we mean by agile. So during this Obeah will actually do a class we'll do eight hours from our playbook saying this is what we mean. We're job as consultants is to stay on the edge of modern product delivery, and business agility. So we're constantly improving our playbook. We just published this fourth edition. But we give you about 80 to 90 practices that we teach. Okay, in this playbook. I mean, then we actually compare what you're calling your agile movement to what's your work. In every culture. There's good words and bad words like, Oh, God, don't use that agile word. Don't call it a stakeholder, or don't call it a steering committee, right? There's certain like, words have meaning because people have history. And so you have to figure out what are the right words for your culture, and then we'll build your playbook with you. A lot of things we teach are these things, servant leadership, lean design, thinking, Kanban, Scrum, extreme programming, DevOps, of course, right. And so they all have a different role. And all depends on how we're going to start that change management plan to take you agile, where we start,

we effectively start threads of each of those in parallel, because it takes a long time to get any of them to build critical mass. So

with all that jargon, at the highest level, this is our simple picture. We call it the balanced team approach. Design thinking is all about the product and the business side, Lean and Agile up at the top and then DevOps and engineering excellence zero defects at the bottom right. So those three things together, we call it balanced team. And we also see people who when they start their business agility thing, they always just start with process, right? Well, you're really behind, you're already you're already 18 years behind a manifesto, right? Scrum was 1995. Okay? And if you're going to embrace design, thinking and engineering excellence, your path business agility is going to be long and hard. Because you can't be agile with crappy software defects, bad design, right? So you really have to kind of start with thinking about wreck accept the fact that you're behind. And that you need to get you start thinking that all three of these circles at the same time, not not sequential.

We shared an awesome story with our Compuware friend yesterday talking about automating the testing on top of their mainframe, and it's like doesn't matter what technology you just have to move it and modernize it so that the whole company can benefit from the use of all your existing assets.

So well bet on me Agile adoption. Whoa, we have our posters out there, but we'll kind of say, Okay, here's the Lean dog playbook. What's your playbook on this example? What Safelite right down the road? Basically, we took our playbook, we hung it up there. We don't assess teams, I actually trust that you hire good people, when you should trust them to tell you the truth. If you can't, then that's your that's your next problem. So what we'll do is we'll bring people in the room and say, hey, we'll train you on what we mean by agile. And you tell us all these different teams? Are we always sometimes never doing the practice? Are we happy about the practice sad about the practice or discipline? Because you could do something and hate it? And there's no, that means there's no value, right? So we bring the teams and we don't go around and say, Hey, we're gonna audit all your agile teams and judge whether you're agile or not, I don't care, right? I expect to bring them in a room, educate them, except then tell us the truth. And the difference is they tell us the truth. And we put up on the wall, that they aren't doing something or they hate doing something. The difference is a servant leaders, we have to fix that. We have to give him the coaching and training. So people will tell you the truth, if they actually get the reward. If they tell you the truth, and you're gonna smash passion for it, they're gonna tell you the truth. That's not the culture we're building. We're building this learning culture and psychological safety to say, I don't know, we do this thing. And it's sucks. But we do it. I'm just doing it. So I get the box, check that that's not that's waste, right? It has to add value to your work, okay? Because it has to provide business agility, you have to get things done. Okay. So it's a simple approach, we lose a lot of gigs, because all the big consulting firms do like, oh, come in for six months and audit the heck out of your agile or we'll do it in like a day, you can start by teaching people and trusting people and having them tell us what's working, what's not working, right and believing them. Right? And saying, Okay, we'll help you get past that. Good. I

was just gonna say in six months of doing assessment, you can actually start doing the things. Yeah. make progress.

Okay, so next important part, and this is another failed business agility? Is it if this comes in it thing? And so it's a matter of how do we actually drive this from the top down? And so this is an example that same wall, you get the CEO, the CIO, they're looking at that wall, and we're talking with them about how are we going to convince them what business agility isn't? Why we're doing this? Okay. How are you? How are you going to build that message in from the CEO across the bank, right, about what we're doing and why we're doing this. So what in this case they have an entire was 10 people in a communications team? Yeah. Okay. That's how much people so many people are working, just communicating what business agility is, why it's so important, especially in the FinTech space, right, and how we need to get modern in our product delivery. And so if we come in, and we're only working with the CIO probably not going to work, right, we need to be working with that guy who the CEO, right? Because that's the person who has to really believe in this, and not just think this is just it getting better, that realizing that technology, we have to embrace technology and everything we do it, it's a business outcome, not a it outcome. So

servant leadership is a huge part of everything we're doing. Like we said, we've started from the top, just getting the executives, we're working with the teams helping them get connected to those value streams. But in the middle, we have layers and layers of managers do we have to help them change the way they think. And so we've been working through, you know, just the basics of servant leadership and telling them what to stop doing and what to start doing, and what things to keep doing their skill set is actually still very valuable. And so we're trying to reinforce these messages, because a lot of people start getting freaked out about whether there's a role for them or not the business analysts, the project managers, the HR managers are the people in the teams. These 10 characteristics of servant leadership from Robert Greenleaf is just an awesome place to start. And like just hearing the fact that your job is to listen like actively listen, actually care about your people, help be a steward to help people accomplish their missions actually help them in their careers. Ask them, how can I help you instead of, you know, what have you done for me. And those just basics are really helpful. And sometimes we've realized people just haven't heard it before. And so by telling them and sharing with them, they have the capability to do this innately. They've just been rewarded to do other things their whole career. We also love this book sense and respond to the the client brought Jeff got health and actually speak on these topics. And these seven things really resonate with them. There's eight things we actually split one of them up, just having, you know, safety to fail being transparent. And they have these little catchphrase, they love this, you know, bias towards action, but actually aligned with the vision. And

so part of that is getting from the top Hey, guess what, we are going to reorganize or organizational design? We are not we are going to have less middle management. Yep, we are. Right. We because we're going to empower the people to actually be people right and not have so many layers is that means as middle managers, one of his favorite, Mike's favorite quotes is prepare to get uncomfortable. Because you're gonna get uncomfortable, and not all you're going to be in the same role that you're in today. And he says, Tell him be completely honest and transparent right up front. Yeah, if you're worried. Yep. Some of you probably shouldn't be right. If you're laggards in my organization's or your late majorities. Yeah, probably ought to be a little bit nervous, right, because there will be fallout. So I say 10 In anywhere from 10 to 20%, okay of the organization, the laggards will leave. Okay, once we finally get over that tipping point. So this is an example of Cardinal Health, Brent, they're really good leader, bring his management team on being humble in front of them, say, hey, we all have a vote on everything. Just because I've got this title on the ball doesn't mean that I have more votes, right? I value all of your brains. And we're going to create decision frameworks that are collaborative, right? Not authoritative, not command and control. Okay? And that has to be, it has to be upheld. And that means that the highest paid kind of room doesn't always get what they want, right? It's the team that decides, right? Next thing we need to do is kind of shift now the business right, step forward to product and design thinking, okay. We're now fun people and we fund products, we don't fund projects, there were projects xe go away. Okay. Which is huge, right? Think about that. Because the world's project, I get my money, I get in line, everything I can out here, I hope to hell, I get what I want. When money runs out, right? That shift has to happen. Okay, the best product company in the world, our product companies, they aren't project companies. Okay, that's old. That's old school thinking. And I'll talk about how a lot of things have to change how to make that shift happen. We want to focus on the right outcome versus the right output. Okay, so we just got something done. But was it right that we get the right business outcome, because if you're running a project mentality, you get in line you get, I spend my money, I get something, if I don't get the right outcome, it doesn't matter. I'm out of money, I'm out of line, right? I never achieved the business result. So we need to be completely business result focused. And that might mean doing things once, twice, 310 times. Until we get that outcome. If we're immature in design thinking is probably going to take us longer. If we're more mature in design thinking we'll probably get closer to right the first time because what she actually listened to our customers and not try to be our customers. So that's where design thinking and sensor respond come in. So a lot of people are talking about your digital transformation, customer journeys. That's kind of how people are thinking about what's the journey, the customer on? How do we connect that? What is that end to end experience seamlessly throughout my, my corporation, where do they self serve? Where don't they self serve, and really embracing that? Almost everywhere we go, there's not enough design thinking, right? This is not like one person to 10 teams or something crazy, right? And we don't even take the things we do internally and take the same passion for building great internal products, as we do external products. And in modern software delivery, you have to recognize the fact that anything you do internally could be exposed externally for self service at some point, so why not build it for for design thinking from from upfront? Step five, is really this is kind of the hardest thing is, how do we say no? Like, how do we actually manage that demand funnel? We have that crazy wall with 2 million things to do and, and to honor people to do it, and there's no way we're gonna get it done. So how are we actually do this. This is an example of a journey map. So this is basically looking at a customer's experience going across all of these different different life cycles. And then these things down here are actually agile teams that were standing up to support different phases of the journey.

And in the middle, there are the capabilities that they recognized and assets that they already had. This is kind of how the company is trying to tie their brand new vision and mission to all of the teams of execution.

I'm putting an executive portfolio together actually calling it an executive portfolio. So they show up and look at it, it's been is really helpful because it forces them to actually see it all on one page. Next week, actually, they're putting up this is just one division, they have six of these, and they're going to put them all up on the wall. And it'd be the very first time in over 100 years of history that they've ever seen their business strategy on one room, in

no the cost these teams these people, right, cuz we fund people, we fund products, right? Yeah. So what's the cost for these people to support these products they discovered

was their strategic element, the thing that gives them competitive advantages, that second column, and they don't have a single team at the bottom down there. So like, oh, we have to shift things, we have to actually move people from over here to over there in order to actually achieve the value we're looking for for our customers.

Okay, so now it's it's how do we actually scale Okay, so we built this big visual room. We spent a couple of days together we educate we baseline right now we say okay, now what do we do next? Where do we started? We get into containment? What's our strategy going to be? There's lots of strategies, some lean dog isms, but the containment right we contain these groups, we put them in the tree house, we got them small, we coaching on them, we're we're uplifting them, we're graduating them, right we're putting them out back out in the wild. There's going to be pop up sales, okay? And not terrorism sales, but hopefully good pop ups team because the CEO and the CIO are talking about going to business agility, and explaining educating breadwinners is so good people right on that curve who say I want to start I'm gonna go to business agility conference, I'm going to go to CSM training, I'm going to go to safety and whatever it is, right? You can't when people want to learn and improve you, it's hard to say no. So these pop up, things are going to happen. So almost in every strategy we do for training Automation, we also recognize we're going to have to keep continue to contain the excitement and the energy. And sometimes when a pop up sale happens, we say, Hey, stop. We don't have you can't or we said, Great. Come on into the Treehouse, and we have capacity will embrace you, right? So we have a backlog of teams pop up cells that we know we need to contain. They're probably not under the right org design, because it just popped up and people on the team were on their team, right? But that's okay, that that happens. The other model was lift and shift. And by that what I mean is you act like a startup, you take another space, or the same space as, hey, we're gonna build 10 agile teams, and they're 12 to 15 person teams. And if you want to apply to be on one apply, and anybody in the company can actually interview to apply, okay, and we'll hire them just like we're startup, we're starting a new company within our company. And they have to prove to us that hey, that Yeah, I actually am I am on the left side of that curve. And it's how you know it because I go to conferences, I go to meetups, I read books, you know, I have a mentor, I, you know, how are you showing me that you're actually on the left side of the curve versus the right, like, what behaviors have you exhibited, right to prove that you're worthy of coming into this, you know, applying for this new job in this new company, okay. And so that creates an excitement. Another concept is what we call the amoeba. So we build a team, right? We usually take six months to a year to get them kind of mature, depending on how much we're doing. And then we split the cell. Okay? So it's Alright, great. That's an awesome team, you guys are great. Now six of you are gonna go start another team, and you six are gonna hire six people to replace those six. Okay. And so we'll do that kind of split cell approach, right? So that's also a good strategy. Some companies do the boot camps, like if you go to Target dojo.com. That's the most famous one, right? Are we doing tech academies, where you actually say, we're going to immerse you in a fake project, or even a real project for 12 to 14 weeks to a bootcamp, teach you all the practices, and then put you back out in the wild? It's hard to do, because when you get back to the wild, you have all the constraints of the value stream not working. So it's hard to do this, but some companies do it. And every week, we're bouncing up against Safelist, dad and Nexus all over the place. And that's okay. We just need to figure out how can we kind of reset those movements so that we were actually have the right people, right on those teams.

There's hardly any companies out there that are dislike saying, Hey, we're ready to get started come help us. They've already tried something, they're already working on something. So you have to work with where they are, meet the customer, where they are, and help them heal, where they've been figured out how to go forward. So

let me tell you this example, that looks like a really simple board. There's lots of hours in front of that board trying to figure out what to do. What is our change plan? So we knew we'd have a containment strategy, we knew we could build new teams, but now we're going to refactor around business capabilities. Okay. So I don't we don't go anywhere where there's only one approach to business agility, because it just doesn't make sense. There's because you have multiple things you need to manage. And so it's a discussion and it has to be your plan. And you have to build that plan. We can't build it for you. Step seven, is we now need to this is the hardest two things ever to do is shift your finance thinking and your HR thinking. Okay, so remember, you know, if we value people, and we're fixing people, right, we need to focus on insourcing. Okay, we're hiring 2000 jobs back from India, right? Because we recognize that people are, that's our knowledge workers are what gives us that competitive advantage. It's hard to do when you're across the pond, there's a huge delay, especially if you're not doing behavior driven development or acceptance test driven development. But the point is that a lot of people, you know, we're all these business entity, you see this INSOURCE outsource right thing go on all the time, we're finding that the companies that really are achieving high levels of business agility are insourcing. Okay, because the people actually work for the company not work for a consultant who works for the company. And we're not swapping those people out, right, based on other client needs. So having that kind of continuity, in your knowledge workers is extremely important to improving flow, because if you keep swapping the people out, right, your value stream map keeps getting longer, right, you're lacking knowledge to actually do the work, right?

MN T is actually leveraging that to their advantage. They've announced to the entire city of Buffalo, we're hiring 2000 people, and it's now a publicity event as well as it is a growth strategy for them. And they're building this technology community center in the biggest building downtown Buffalo. And it's all of a sudden become like this huge momentum builder for not just m&t but the whole city of Buffalo.

So the next thing to do is change how we get paid. Okay? So if you think about it, if all the executives that begin in the year say, Okay, well, great, I have a budget, I'm going to set my objectives, right. And I'm gonna set in everybody wants to exceed right. So they're gonna set lofty goals for what they can achieve. It's not possible that every executive can actually achieve those things. So right away, you're you're blown up that demand wall to be a false false reality, right? Because everybody's competing to get stuff done. It's not possible. So we need to do is change our x EHR incentives where it's actually about the team's outcome, not the individual performance. And that's the biggest problem I have with HR is all the individual performance models don't really work. In fact, as an HR I almost got fired because when I had to figure out how to do raises, I said, God, I don't No, no. And I bet she kind of exposed everybody's rough salaries. And I said, Why don't you Oh vote, I'm gonna be able to give up 4%. So I gave him wooden nickels, half, half a percentage point, we did this kind of game and we did some gamification around, how do we decide if Charlie makes more or you're definitely more. And so the team had to figure out how to do that balancing of handing out the money, not me. And then as a manager, I took that very last moment, I moved something that half a percent. So I can say, I actually did my job, right to check that box. But reality is, this is a big deal. Not only do the rewards have to change, the executives, throughout the company, is really about outcome. And if the reality is we only get a certain percentage, let the teams decide of my team who's more worthy of that money than I am. Right? And do that all the way up to executive level. This is a big deal. So it's hard to do. Not many companies actually make this leap. Yeah, I think 11 years, maybe three. And

yet people talk about it. They know that the hero culture and rewarding individuals are hoarding knowledge and becoming experts in one particular thing. That's what they used to do. And now we have to encourage the teams to be cross functional and self sustaining all these things that the HR policies and the and the Agile momentum don't quite align quite nicely at everyone knows they need to do it. But it feels like the hardest thing to do, just like the funding. Yep.

So again, we're funding people and products over projects, that's probably the biggest takeaways like, so we have to change, change the models to support that if we don't change the compensation systems, and finance systems, then the behaviors don't change. Okay, because you're still playing the same game, every wants to make more money, everybody gets funding, right, I want to get the most I can't wait to get funding. So you really can't kind of change the true business's ability, if you don't take these things on. And I say these things like their steps, really, all these things are kind of in parallel, right? When you start your business agility transformation needed to kind of do all these things at once. And be honest, the fact that, hey, we have all these different things we need to do at the same time, you know, are we engaged with our financing our legal when our facilities and and you know, are we educating our CFO on how things need to change? Or why they need to change, right? Or are we just like pulling them along like IT folks and saying, Yeah, we want to work agile, so you must work agile, right? That doesn't work.

And, you know, we started talking to the finance folks at m&t about Beyond Budgeting and all the kinds of the agile ways of treating finance. And they just said, You know what, we can't deal with that yet. We're just going to do same old budgeting craziness. What do they call it? They call it the Thunderdome that bring your business requirements and you know, arm wrestle for funding, they're going to do that, again, in spite of all of the momentum they built with agile, they're gonna do their budgeting process the same way in 2020. But they're committing to 2021 to change their funding model, so that they can actually align to their teams as the currency model. The fact that Mike the CIO says that just warms my heart, he said, the teams are the currency, he gets it, he knows that you don't have to count hours anymore, you don't have to worry about that you can actually deal with all the capitalization and all the things that go along with that if you actually use the teams as the currency.

So step eight is really just use that leverage that of Byron, Byron doesn't go away, we're continually updating it. If you, you'll see that some things become high fidelity, right? Things that don't change much we make them prettier, because we'll have enough wall space. But we actually meet in iterations, right, other bi weekly or monthly, and we come in and we say, How are we doing that change management print plan here? How are we doing moving towards business agility? How are we measuring that we're getting there? Right. And that room becomes like a living, breathing pulse of that culture. Because anybody walking, it's funny. Sometimes we do this when you have a C level person leaving, like, we just felt like Joanne fabrics, a good example, they were shopping for a CIO, okay, well, if you're CIO, and you walk in a culture, like, Hey, I'm going to take I'm an interview with all these people go run the gauntlet, you really don't know what you're getting into until you get in there. Right? You hear all the lip service about how the systems work, what's working, what's not working? What do you need to fix. So we'll build out in a buyer room and they'll walk in, in fact, the guy was in the middle of winter last year, and he's like, I never met him, but he's like, Oh, thank God, you actually build up that room because I didn't know what I was getting into. And I'm walking around in a cold room today, understanding all the work all the demand all the business functions, right? And understanding the system, right? And the culture that I'm about to inherit and understand, okay, my job is to get help get to the next level. Okay, so we build these advisors for lots of purposes. But it just works. It's I tell people kind of going Agile is kind of like going back to kindergarten, right? We all sit in a big open room, we put our homework up on the wall. Everybody knows who the bigger better reader is. Right? We have recess. We have fun, right? We have a continual learning environment, we don't judge people, right? I don't know if you're gonna be, you know, a rocket tear or, you know, you know, fire me doesn't matter, right? We just value people. And so by building this kind of living, breathing by room, it was saying is we welcome everybody's knowledge. And if you walk in on day one and want to be part of this system, this is the system. Yeah, and there's parts of it that are really bad, right? And we know that but we need to improve this system and we need to achieve business agility by honing the system and reducing waste, be more efficient, be more transparent creating this culture. And so when people walk into it, you kind of get a feeling for exactly how you fit into that piece. And you also start getting appreciation what everybody else does, right in their role, because you got hired probably to do one thing and several things. But then there's other people have other responsibilities to manage parts of that system to get things done, where there's Security, Architecture, doesn't matter. It's everybody has a role towards business agility. More

complicated you are, the more you need all that visualization. Some Some problems are just so complex, people can't get their heads wrapped around it unless they've actually seen it visually. And that's what these rooms accomplish is that people can soak in so much more information than they're able to consume. People are overwhelmed with all the emails and newsletters. So just coming into a room and being able to take what they want and learn what they want is powerful.

So we'll bring the executives in the room will do show and tell us about our change plan, how we're doing, what business outcomes, we're trying to achieve, what's working, what's not working. Once teams graduate, we push them back out of the treehouse out of the nest or development center. Then we'll do gimble walks, which is lean means going to the floor to actually assign a coach or someone to say, hey, you have these 10 teams and 10 buildings and you're gonna visit with them every once in a while. And not only are you going to understand what's working, not working for them. If we uncover better ways of working, right, then we'll also share them with them. So we create this kind of these practices of sharing and learning, right? It's just part of the culture and it's healthy. You want people to come gimble walk your place, right because that means if they can help you they will, right? I'm not here to inspect you. I'm here to help you. If I can rather bring you something or take away something from you. That's awesome. Okay, and that's part of the culture
