Information radiators are also very, very important concept in that job. Most people are visual and they conserve a lot more information visually than not any other form. Alastair Coburn came up with this concept when he was working on Crystal methodology years ago. And it's become kind of a cornerstone to agile. The purpose of information radiators are to radiate and paper form things on the wall, right so that people can absorb them. So they could be things like the burn up chart, Burndown Chart, release plan, project status, roadblocks, risks, your story, card, wall, your architecture, anything that is important for the team to understand, to convey the support the work that they're doing. The another important part of information Raiders is they meet needs to be, the only way it works is if it's cheap and simple. So if I have a post it note up on the wall, when that post it note says something and I don't think it's right, I have a duty to actually update that information as a as an employee, or as somebody for the client. And if it's something fancy, let's say somebody did a fancy PowerPoint or drawing, and they printed it. And that's wrong. Now the cost of change is great. I have to say, if the interrupt someone said hey, can you update this, this is incorrect. But if I can just take the the accountability for going up and ripping up the post it note and throwing it away and putting the correct information up, the cost of change is a lot less. So that's why sometimes it looks sloppy. When you see all the stuff around the room and you're like, especially it looks like kindergarten again, well, in a way it kind of is we hang our homework up on the wall for everybody to see it for everybody to absorb. So it's also nice to kind of have some nicer signs up. For people that don't understand agile, maybe one of the texting we do is we take signs and we put them in picture frames, and we hang them up. So we'll see all right, the purpose of this information radiator is to convey the status of the project. And, you know, are we getting through the cards in a fast enough manner and what's our pace, the purpose of this information Raiders to convey risk, so that we can manage to talk about discuss it. So having a couple of nice looking pictures on the wall to kind of convey that all the clutter you see around it is actually valuable to us. And this is the purpose of it usually helps corporations and companies except that a little bit better. Even coming into the room. I like to have a scientist explaining what information radiator is. So before they even get into the room, like okay, I kind of get the fact that this all this stuff on the wall is important, and why they actually have it up there. One of the challenges is that there's too much information to radiate. So you don't teams have neat information sometimes and sometimes they don't. So one of the practices I like to do is it on, on your stand up meetings, say on Friday stand ups after the standup. Everybody takes five minutes and we kind of peruse the room. And we look at all the radiators and we make sure they're sturdy. So adding value. One way to know they aren't adding value is if they aren't changing, okay? So if you're having discussions about things and you're changing, you're updating, that's probably serving its purpose if we became just a poster or just something to show it's really not adding value to the team that maybe we need to free up that wall space. So we put more radiators up. So again, it should look sloppy it should be fun. It should be easy. Tape yarn, bingo daubers postcards, ribbon, go to the craft store, buy a bunch of stuff and let people radiate out what's in their minds and then through radiate radiate out what's what you believe to be true. The team will let you know what what the reality of that is. So that's the purpose of the information radiators. And again, if you aren't doing it, it's one of the cornerstones of of becoming agile.
