Today, we're gonna go over Lo Fi prototyping. And that is one method we use to help quickly iterate some ideas around what it is that we're trying to build, there's a couple of ways you can do that. And probably the item you use the most is the whiteboard. Because then you can erase it when you mess up. And there is nothing invested in it, right. So if I have an idea that I want to build, one reason thing I had was I wanted to build a grocery list app, something that would allow me to manage my grocery shopping and my menu for the week. So one of the things I as a user, of course, this isn't necessarily the best user case, right? You don't want to build just for yourself. But because this is my idea, these are sort of the rough ideas I'm going to start with. So I want something that I can plan out my week. At a simple level, I want it to be able to be divided into however many days I plan to shop for. So if this is going to be Sunday, Monday, etc. I want something that I can just quickly say I'm going to make pork carnitas on Sunday, and Monday I'm going to have fish and salad. So this is at its bare bones just sort of a rough idea of to start with. So from here, I can start to add on either features and things that I want to detail out more. So that's, that's an ad it's bare bones are really rough, rough prototype, right. But so as I'm talking about this, this is just my list. But if I want something that I can go add onto, and then I have my list of things. So if I'm grocery shopping, I need my pork, I might need tacos, I might eat fish, salad, etc. So I need the ability to add and remove these things. And I want the ability to move them at will. So if I could tap that, and drag it up, that'd be really cool. Because maybe I want to organize my list based on how I shopped in the store. So if I start to produce probably all my produce section together instead of Higgledy Piggledy over the place. So in my our app world, I'm gonna have my, my logo, I'm gonna have some actions, you know, any iPad checkmark to say it's done. Again, I can't, because I'm building this on the fly, not necessarily have a totally fleshed out, but just trying to get some sketches together. So they're really sketches, their bare bones, they allow you to, where's my eraser, things things like, you know, forget that. And nothing bested Miss aside from writing on a whiteboard, right? The same thing goes. If I'm not your whiteboard, sometimes I just use pen and paper. So I'll sit down and start to draw something out and, and try to just see how that feels. Because you can crumple up a piece of paper, throw it away, start again. And then as you get those prototypes together in their basic, basic outline, you can start to share them and get some feedback. And you could do this collaboratively. So if you're in a project and you have the whole project team, here you have it, you have UX, you have business, you have analysts who have testing. As you start to talk through what it is that you're trying to solve, you can start to sketch out together, what it is that you're aiming for. So while you can use whiteboard, and you can use pen and paper, other people may jump into quick prototyping tools like balsamic or IRA's, X after all our tools that are computer tools that you can then use to quickly sketch things out. Heck, you could even use PowerPoint if you really wanted to start drawing boxes and squares and get some of those concepts out. And the nice thing about Lo Fi prototyping is you don't have to be a designer you don't have to have it look fantastic. It's just just bare bones meant to get your concept across like the giant sticky notes that you put up. You could stick it up and you could use other sticky notes to layer onto it to to show different regions. You know, let's say you're going to use a pink every bad summer substitute. So we're gonna get back to a for Okay, so I have a website or webpage that I'm trying to build.

I might use this for my logo area. That's usually where that right? And then maybe I have a new section that I know I want somewhere over here. And where things would you find that place here, I've got to do this across

so this is my feature and maybe this is video

these are comments. Terrible writing, but so add a roof, I've got some core things that are going to be inserted into this page, oh, maybe I don't want us over there, I want to down here. That's the nice thing of being able to do something like this where you can pick up the moving pieces and parts. So that's another way you could do a five prototyping. And then at the end, you just simply like take a photo of it and then start to build out real wireframes and mock ups from there, which is a whole other topic. I have seen some really interesting prototyping going on where, again, with paper with the mobile space and the touch that you can get really creative. And I don't know this will work I guess, for a second

that because touch introduces a whole new interesting interface, you can start to represent with like almost origami paper aid, so if this upon load is reduced in size, then you can actually get the sense of okay, I pull this down. So there's some really interesting things out there on the web that are starting to do that type of stuff.
