An open workspace, probably one of the highest value practices and all of Agile. What we're talking about here is actually getting rid of all your cubicles and working in the open environment. We like to call cubicle sensory deprivation chambers, you were born with a lot of senses. And then we'd lock you in a cube and we judge it, whether you're at your laptop or not. high performing teams are always communicating, collaborating, designing, thinking through their problems out loud. That's how they learn. That's how they grow. That's how they support each other. So if you have a work environment without an open workspace, if you are providing a conducive place for people to use their minds, it's not about being introverted extrovert. It's about sharing your knowledge. It's about communicating, listening. And working as a team. A lot of companies make the mistake of just saying, Alright, well, we're gonna go Agile. So let's take a conference room, no windows shut people when they're theirs or open spaces control this experiment. Reality is that, if you're gonna do open to workspace, there's a lot to consider. In our agile discussion guide, we have four or five pages of bullet points. We practiced with a lot of organizations helping them transform the culture. And you have to consider a lot of things a couple key elements usually takes about 150 square foot per person, which is a lot less per person than a cubicle, square footage allowances usually like to 25 to 50 and large corporations, you have to have not only a big open workspace, but you need at least two breakout rooms that your team can jump into and have meetings. So it doesn't mean that everything has to be done public. Sometimes you need to go in a room, brainstorm whiteboard, talk things out work with the customer. So these two meeting rooms though should not be booked. Nobody else can use it except these two teams. We also need some personal space, so lockers, Cubby, someplace to put your personal belongings is always good. We find that most people think they really need them. And over time, they usually carry everything they want their backpack, having course great pairing monitors, video, projectors, whiteboards, lots of art supplies, right so that you can be creative and design things. Good speaker phones, so you can have good conversations, those are all important as well. Expect to have food in your workspace because we all have to eat. And it's an important part of what you do. So food, drink coffee, it's nice to have a corner where you can have that, which also have a sign of fun. So creative people need to have fun. If you don't see a sign of fun in the room, you probably aren't being very creative and innovative. So it's okay to see toys and crazy things around the office. So people can get up and take mental breaks and do things and keep occupied. We'd like to also have a rolling toolboxes with supplies to remove supplies around the room, the furniture needs to be able to be moved around by the team at will. So you don't need to call a facilities person to get permission to do something. The teams are known as you know, they're all adults. And so you just treat them as adults and let them move their furniture around and create the work environment however they choose to fit and as part of being a servant leader. Open Workspaces are also deemed as like sloppy and kind of fun like there. But reality is people are working probably harder than they ever have. Because they're pairing and working transparently the entire day pairing and doing things. Typically the scrum master servant leader needs to protect the open workspace. In other words, as people come in, are curious about what they're doing. Their job is to give tours of it, show the facility, show their work products on the wall, show their product, talk about agile, but prevent distractions from the team. So it's nice to have an open workspace that has some type of a barrier, even if it's some whiteboards along one side or something another side so that it's clear when people are entering into that team's workspace. It's not just hey, I want to take a break. Let me go hang out with the agile teams and eat their food and play with their toys. Because that's that's that's what will happen. So you kind of have to protect it a little bit and ask people Hey, can I help you can I show you around here is about our practice around agile and these guys are working hard and kind of be a protector of that open workspace. At the end of the day. People have a lot of angst about personal belongings, but high performing agile teams it's usually not that big a deal. They get more satisfaction in doing their work. Because we work a sustainable pace. We work so hard for you and go home, that your personal life panic is there. So that's there's a lot a lot to it. Like I said check out our book. There's four or five pages of information about this. A lot of them are a lot of lessons learned over the years of helping people transform their cultures.
