Saunas are helpful for when you start a project to outline who your users are. And you may have multiple user types coming into use your app, your product, your website. If you are not in a digital space, you have users without physical spaces. So it's not just for a technology industry, many people use personas. So personas at the beginning are really ways for you to communicate to the entire team who it is that you are building, whatever for. So this helps keep the whole project team focused on making sure that as you develop and as you build things you're meeting those users needs. Now, you don't just make these up out of thin air. That would be too easy. You base this upon user research. So you go out and you start talking to people, and you interview people and and try to drive out from them what it is that they need, what their motivations are. You don't just ask pointed questions like would you use this? You want to find out what drives them. So something I recently worked on that really personas played a big part in driving out how we structured things was creating a website for 11 year old girls. And after we did our user research on interviewing all these 11 year old girls, a keep a few things emerged from those interviews that were really surprising to me. One of those things was that 11 year olds do not use Facebook. They think of that as like old fogy land, they have their other social networking things that they do. And they use, they use social networking in a totally different way than you or I might. So that as a researcher was really interesting to find out after interviewing these, these young girls. So our sampling of 15 girls that we talked to you who ranged in age of 11, to 15, started to have common themes among them. One of the things they did was they all use Tumblr, they use chat, they never call anybody, they never were on Facebook, they want it to feel smart, but not too smart. So there are lots of interesting psychological things that emerged from talking to these girls. So after those user interviews of those girls, we then went back and crafted personas. And we came up with two personas for this, this particular project just in the essence of time, and you know, amount of people involved, it was sort of a volunteer type of effort. But so we crafted these personas, and they became what helped us create our product. So after interviewing, you then start to form an actual document of your persona. So you create a fictitious person who's based on all these interviews. So after we interviewed all these girls, we created you know, Isabel, we put a picture doesn't have to be any of the girls in the interview. But definitely age specific, and, you know, wrote out what it is that motivated or so is athletic. That's a motivation, loves art. And sharing, so at a high level. That's, that's our Isabel but we can start to drive into what it is that motivates her. So getting good grades.

Pleased to serve what pleases her parents

as she feels

validated, unfortunately, is the only word that comes to mind validated in her efforts. So for this particular app that we were building, we wanted girls to be able to go forward and earn learn technology and earn badges. So there was an education component. And as we looked at about or were like, Okay, getting like achieving something, is is going to be helpful in how we construct this. So if we build a lesson, she's going to be able to achieve and earn a badge. So does that get at meeting her sort of motivations? Is she a candidate for who's going to use her site? So, again, these are really high level outlines of people and they give a real face to who you're building things for. So as you're in the developer A cycle news, you get to something and you're like, gosh, this just feels really clunky and weird. You can come back to the persona and say, Boy, you know, Isabel does it does that make sense for her? Is that how she's gonna understand it or work through it or, or use it. And it helps keep the whole team focused around on the right path to meeting those user needs. I've seen personas done really in depth where you, I mean, heck, you could write a book about these people, right? You could have a website that attracts many, many, many 1000s of user types, but can you get them into the challenges to get them into sort of some archetypes where, you know, at a at a low level, you have this consumer, this consumer and this consumer. And they differ because of these things, my mother is a very different online shopper than I am. And you know, the next generation is going to be even more different. So those alone can be very high level personas. And then you can get into all the details you want. If time allows. I've also seen things done at a very high level. So recently, I mean, we went through the website redesign, and we've came up with personas to say, Get who's coming to our site? Well, it's people who want to work with us. There's people who want to learn from us. And there's people who want to work here

maybe there's more, but that alone provided enough guidance for how we structured some of our content and, and define the overall structure and architecture of the site. So you can go super high level, you know, what is it who, you know, if people want to work with us, who want to learn from us, they want to, you know, come work here. That's it, we never went any further, you get into something that starts to get into individuals. And those could be shorter as long as you want. And, and then you can have as many as you want. I would urge you not to go too crazy, you know, restrict them to maybe three to five persona types, unless you're in a really complex system that has multiple user types and then within those user types have even more sub user types
