We have special guests on the boat, James Gurney are the co authors of the Agile Manifesto, and also the brain of the creator behind plenty poker. So I'm intrigued by that and just wanted to kind of get that story. Okay, hear how that came to be?

All right? Well, you know, so it wasn't any great thing designed and as it's been attributed to being a variation of Delphi is completely an accident. Although there are similarities, I can see that but I had a problem I was it was in the early 2000s, I was in Utah working with a company, we were trying to help learn how to do extreme programming, we had a stack of story cards, we were trying to get them estimated, and I was a coach. And with eight people around the table, two architects and the rest of the team, so the two really experienced guys, they were talking about the story, take them an hour, we do another story and take another hour. And it was really getting bogged down. We weren't making anywhere in our in our deck. Plus, six out of the eight people were asleep. And I was having a hard time keeping awake myself. So we took a break. And back then when we did a consulting job for object mentor. Rumor has it is you'd be parachuted in with a stack of note cards and a bowie knife. Okay, so I had the the note cards, I think I left the knife at the hotel. But so I've got the the notecards we took a break and said, How can I get people engaged since? Well, let's have everyone write their estimate on the note card. So here, we're on this table, and he's writing a note and we said, Okay, everybody else wants to know, because I didn't want these two guys that were running the show to be the only ones that talk because other people might have some ideas. Well, they showed their cards, and there was a little bit of difference. So we discussed the difference in voted again. And then we converge pretty quickly, we did a story in five minutes instead of an hour. And we continue, we did all the rest of the stories, you know, maybe in about an hour's time, we're able to quickly get through it. What I was really looking to do is find out where we agreed, so we didn't have to talk about it. Because we didn't really care about how we were going to do it. We just wanted to get an estimate. And if we agreed on a number, then there was no need to discuss in that those could move off the table quite quickly. If we disagreed, you could find out who was in what and why they thought so why do you think it's easy? Why do you think it's hard vote again? We converge. You know, none of the dogma about Fibonacci was there. People wrote the number on the card that they thought if the numbers got bigger, you know, I'd say, you know, let's not argue about 16 versus 20. Let's just pick one, or, you know, because it means we don't know that much about it because it's a big number. So pick one. People were even allowed to play two cards at once, if they didn't want to write a new card and the two cards ended up to the right number, you know, so it was there was none of the rules that we have now. So that's how I got started. I wrote a little paper and then Mike Cohn saw it, and they were getting the scrum training and things started and he was reading one of his books. And he called me and said, Do you mind if I put that in my book? And I said, No problem. Put it in, attributed to me. He made it think
