release planning is an event that takes place prior to any work happening, and then should continue to occur at regular intervals throughout the life of the project. Basically, in a release plan, what we're looking at is the team, the product owner, stakeholders, and ideally, any kind of dependent groups are involved in laying out a very high level plan for the product. This is macro level features, not necessarily a whole lot of detail, small enough that there that the team can estimate them. But the estimations can be in relatively large buckets. In a lot of cases, we recommend the team's estimate, at this point in T shirt sizes, small, medium, large, extra large, and don't concern themselves with fine grained detail. Really, the purpose of release planning meeting is to get a general sense of how much work can we fit into a real art larger release cycle, which may actually be comprised of a number of smaller iterations, we're looking at things like risk, we're making sure that we have a sense that there's enough work for the whole team, the pair's aren't gonna be sticking down, they're going to be stepping on each other. We're making sure that if we have identified risks, we have a mitigation plan that might be that we're actually spiking out concepts and ideas. And those spikes might occur early on in our first or next iterations that we can get better sense of what is this work and actually carry it forward? A release plan really should include what we know to be the entire backlog, and then kind of scheduling for maybe one or two releases. And what we're going to do is we're gonna continue to revisit this plan, every few iterations or, you know, each release to confirm that, yes, these large level features are still the ones that we want next that we're delivering the highest value that we're taking care of our risks and just kind of reassessing. So, if you imagine what a sprint plan or an iteration plan looks like release planning is very similar just at a much more coarse grained level.
