One aspect of Agile is continual improvement. Teams taking a look at how they're doing, assessing what could be improved, deciding what actions to take, measuring the results of those actions determine if those are a benefit or not. And just constantly seeing if they can hone tune and improve their software delivery process. An important piece of that is retrospectives. A lot of agile teams, especially in their early stages, struggle with retrospectives, some even in the later stages. A lot of times, it's due to lack of follow through. The retrospectives take on sort of a ritualistic feel, but there's no actual action taken for improvement. And so eventually, the ritual feels pretty pointless. Sometimes it's just for facilitation, folks that are running the retros just don't know how to keep people on task and keep it from veering off into the weeds. And sometimes it's at the team doesn't really understand what the purpose of a retro is in the first place. And so they can't direct themselves towards, you know, benefit. There are literally hundreds of ways to do a retrospective, when you get down to fine grained details, whether that be using the starfish or using a timeline or fishbone. There's a number of different practices that are out there. But every retrospective, should effectively follow the same fundamental structure, setting the stage where we are, determining what the purpose of this retro is, you know, why are we here? And what is it that we're seeking to achieve? Gathering data where we're actually getting information from the group, maybe looking at actual measurements and quantifiable things, but also talking about how we felt about things that happened over the course of this last iteration? Right? generating insights. So based on that data, trying to figure out what can we learn from this? And, you know, what does it reveal to us, then deciding what to do? What actions to take? So what are we going to do next to improve our situation or to better what's going on here? And then closing out the retrospective, making sure that there's some kind of way that you know, we're marking the end of it, and we're all sort of creating an agreement on what we're going to do over the course of the next iteration, based on our learnings from this retrospective
