We're talking about roadblocks. Now, this is not the stuff you see out in your traffic. But this is stuff you'll see in the activity of your development team, that we've got several kinds of meetings that this would come up in. The first is the daily stand up. So this is one of the three questions, what's the roadblock? So hopefully, when we're going through and talking about what's going on, that the team will say, Hey, I've got this problem, I've got this issue. If you've got a story board wall, that we should highlight the fact that that story, or that defect has a roadblock, a lot of teams would have a separate roadblock list that that would go on. But I like to have it tagged against the story, because we're all about getting a story to done this Roblox blocking that story. And that's going to be the job of the team to go through and remove the roadblock. If the team can do it. This becomes the area the iteration manager, where they're going to take those set of roadblocks and see if they can mow them down through escalation or personal relationships with these probably external teams, and see if they can get that roadblock removed. Another meeting that Roblox will probably come up in is a retrospective, the team should be talking about, hey, we had this roadblock, we got that roadblock. You can think of that as problems in our process. How can we mistake proof our process so that those roadblocks will come up anymore? So that should probably be talked about in the retrospective in the show and TAO to the product owner slash customers? We should probably be talking about roadblocks there because it's interfering with getting product out the door to done. What can we do about it? So we want them to be aware of what's going on? Potentially the impact on our burn downs to say this roadblock was slowing things down reducing our efficiency, or they might even be able to help with the escalation process to say, hey, this team has this problem. What can we do to help Hey, you go talk to this team, talk to this Vice President about getting support because hopefully we're working on important stuff and if it's important, let's move down those roadblocks.
