All right, the scrum framework is primarily a project management perspective doesn't really cover off engineering practices. So I'm just gonna go through the high level flow, the product owner will go through put together the backlog of stories to find the features. Laying out the business value we want to accomplish, typically will get helped by other people from the team, often business analysts that will provide the basis for some sort of planning effort, then we'll take a look at actually executing on that plan, which is in sprints. So have a sprint planning meeting, the product owner will introduce the stories that have been lined up for discussion at that planning meeting, the team will review the stories decide, hey, here's the ones we're going to go through and take on and volunteer for them and start executing the execution part of Scrum doesn't call out practices like pairing, test driven development. So whatever practices the team is using, they're going to go through and execute does however, call out an idea of definition of done or we get measured by deliver delivering high quality working software. So at the end of our timeframe, Scrum suggests two to four weeks, but we really tend to two weeks or smaller size, from a mean dog perspective. So at the end, we'll have a showing tell, in some ways, this is the proof of the pudding, Hey, did we actually deliver, the product owner is going to take a look at what's delivered. Hopefully, there's some collaboration during the sprint. But the show and tell is the ultimate final point where that kind of determination is going to be made. Does the story pass or not? We might bring up some items that need to be changed, those items will flow back into the backlog. The next step is a retrospective Hey, how well did things go? What was the good things that happened? What were the bad things that happen? And then what kind of changes can we make? Now that timeframe is is quite different than let's say, lessons learned from the waterfall side, we're actually going to take and roll that right into our next meeting, which is the next sprint planning meeting. Now as we're executing every day, we're going to have a team meeting. A lot of teams have it in the morning. And it's a regular time meeting. And it's called the daily scrum. This is going to be something that should not last more than 15 minutes, we'll go through and talk about, Hey, what did I get done so far? What do I plan to get done in the next day? And what roadblocks or issues do I have? shouldn't take very long to go through. The other thing is, this is not a report to the scrum master. It's how the team works together to say hey, what's going on? Or maybe I can help you with that. We don't discuss the details of those kinds of things inside. The daily Scrum is going to be maybe a quick huddle after that meeting. And that goes through pretty well is the process. We do talk about burn downs how we do not progress through that but that's really what the scrum framework is all about.
