So another great technique that we use Lean dog for decision making and we coach our customers on is pretty old technique is Edward de Bono's six thinking hats. You can Google it, look it up, Wikipedia. But let me tell you a little about how it works. So the concept is that you actually have six different color hats. So the first hat color hat is blue hat. So that's the person who's going to facilitate the decision making process. The blue for the person with the blue hat says, Alright, guys, we're going to try to make a decision about something. Let's start with a white hat. The white hat is the fact hat. So what are all the facts around this decision? So we present the decision, you know, hey, we're trying to decide if we should sponsor a conference. Okay. Well, what are the weight facts? Well, how many people attend the conference? What's the conference focus? That is it recruiting is a selling? So we talked about everything, we know that it's very factual base, and we write this down on a whiteboard or something. The next hat we could put on could be that Red Hat like, Okay, well, if we did this decision, if we decide to sponsor conference, what are your emotions? Like? How does it make you feel? So we all talk about the same frame of reference? The net other hat is yellow hat, where the optimistic or positive things if we did this, if we did sponsor what would be good about us actually carrying out and sponsoring this event? The green is the creative hat. So what are some of the creative things about this idea that we could use it to make it over the top? A black hat is usually the doubter hat. So why should we be cautious? Why should we be conservative about this? Why might this not be a good idea to do this? It's a simple technique. We use it when we get to decisions that are harder and more complex. Sometimes people get moods, and they tend to, hey, I'm in a black hat mood today. So I'm just going to kind of poopoo everything that I hear and be against it. Or I'm gonna think of the one reason it won't work and throw that out and use that as an argument against every other argument. So it's amazing how simple this idea is and how well it works. Edward has a great book out it explains it but there's blogs, there's all kinds of good information, but try and read one of those six thinking hats, and you'll be amazed about how easy it is to come to conclusions with consensus
