So what is the Agile Manifesto? A lot of people like to think that Agile methodology. Really what it is hard is a set of values and principles. We've been trying to recraft in software for a long time. Clearly, waterfall practices came around iterative practice came around, people were seeking a lighter weight, better and more collaborative way of working. And back in 1995, there were things like crystal and extreme programming and adaptive a whole bunch of different inner methodologies are coming up around and a bunch of people in our industry 17 people to be specific. Were studying these things or writing their own books on their different ways of crafting software. And they decided, hey, why don't we all get together and talk about this because we all share the some of the same values and beliefs about crafting software, and they agreed together in Salt Lake City, Snowbird ski resort, we got the we've had the privilege of working with a lot of manifesto, creators and signatories. So we heard directly from them what the experience was like, but they got together. And they talked about what were they striving for. And they wrote what's called the Agile Manifesto, which is a set of values. They also wrote some founding principles behind that. So really agile is about continually evolving your craft and trying to live the same values and practices at lean dog. If you look, check out our agile discussion guide. We are in our guide, we actually map all the things we practice back to the values, they uphold some of the values or individuals and interactions over processes and tools, customer collaboration over contract negotiation. There's four or five customer responding to change over following a plan, working software over comprehensive documentation. And these values are the core of what we believe the principles behind them are also important. A lot of people hear about the values but they don't actually understand the principles like delivering software in short increments, for example. So I suggest you grab our guide, you read the values, read the principles, and then you form your own path and leaned on. We've written a book to help explain what we mean by agile. So it outlines all the things we teach and practice and we find the value. So we hope you download our discussion guide. Check it out and continue to evolve and study your craft
