I just we have a special guest on the boat today, James granny James is one of the authors of the Agile Manifesto. So, in traditional when we get a author here, we'd like to grill and trying to find out what really happened in Utah on that glorious day. So how did you actually get invited? How did you end up being?

Well, I, at the time worked for Bob Martin, object mentor, and he had arranged the same meeting a year before. And he was going again, I don't think it was at Snowbird, the year before, but we were talking about having it and he asked me if I wanted to go, and there were two opportunities to from places that might go one was Snowbird and one was done in the Caribbean. Somewhere. And, you know, he said, Well, do you want to go to Snowbird? And of course, I said, Yes. And in parentheses, in the cloud behind my head was, I want to go skiing. So I'm going to Snowbird. So that's how I ended up there. Bobby was one of the driving forces behind the meeting happening. And then Aleister kind of made it happened. There is my recollection anyway.

So what happened when you got there? Was it fun first, or meetings first?

Yeah, it was. It was fun. Yeah. So all these guys are really well known guys. And yeah, I'm just Bob's friend wanted to go skiing. And so I met her with with them. And the conversations were really interesting. I kind of remember John John Curran being really engaged in a lot of the conversations, kind of remember kept being kind of quiet. I think maybe he wasn't feeling real good. Martin Fowler was, you know, Martin Fowler and Ron had real kind of key roles in keeping this conversation going. And, of course, the character that he is, and

how long did you guys meet? Like, a little bit each day?

Yeah, let's see, I think it was, you know, we met for a couple of mornings. And there was no expectation of anything important happening. The premise behind the meeting was, why don't we get together with other people that are doing things similar? And find out what we have in common? And quickly the discussion? In my recollection, which now this was 10 years ago, so I might have made all this up, is that we wanted to find out what we had in common. Right? We could have argued about differences, you know, quite a bit in Steve Miller was there and he's, he was there from the model driven perspective. And so he was, you know, kind of, he said, he went there to subvert the meeting, something I read that he wrote recently, and but he was very articulate about, you know, why does it have to be code? Right? Could it be a model? Whenever we said, well, you, does it execute? Yes, they execute, okay. We don't care if it's code. So let's word it so that the word code isn't there. And let's, let's talk about working software, because it could have been with a model or whatever. So it was really interesting to see that whole thing, because there was some tension about that. You know, back in those days, when you're thinking about software process, you weren't really thinking about the people side, you know, because it was Humphrey influence in the 90s was, if you just had the right process, it wouldn't matter what people you had. And for me that, you know, one of the interesting things I was hearing, you know, because now you're with Kent Beck and Ward Cunningham. And it's about, you know, the people aspect, there's values associated with, you know, software development, and that was kind of a foreign thing while I was aware of it, because we've been learning extreme programming from Kent Beck before that, and that sort of thing, but that was very interesting. So

did you when you ended it, what did you think? Did you think that he actually accomplished something that was going? Well, you know,

the, the force statements were, it took a while to get those similar statements, but they, you know, they, it, people were worried about it being misconstrued. Right. So that's why the, on the left, and on the right, was there and the thought sighs You know, what's different? And so, but there was no real expectation that anything that anyone would care, yeah. Right. We were happy that there was a group of people that have shared values and wanted to do the same thing. And we're interested in kind of changing the way the world worked in their own way. Right. And

so, so 10 years later, right, what does it mean to you now?

There's so much to do still. There's a lot of people that have adopted agile, put that in front of their organization and they're not really embracing, you know, the things that you and I know they need to do. Right there. They've gone and gotten their scrum master ship, and they've, they'll do a stand up meeting, but you know, the management of the company might or might not have bought in, they're not writing their tests are wondering, you know, why, why things still hurt. So there, there's too much adoption in name only. But what's really exciting to me about it is agile if 10 years ago isn't what it was 10 years ago, there's so many people that are passionate about making the world better. I look at you guys in your, the talk you did today and yesterday, you know, I can just see what you guys are about is trying to make the world better. And, you know, there's a lot of that passion in the industry. We need to you know, one of the things that I think has to happen is people have to take ownership for what they know and what they don't know, and start to start their own personal improvement. It's hard because the corporate world wants people to get the project done, and not really improve their skills, even though they don't realize the tie between those, unfortunately.

Okay, well, thank you for coming to vote and thanks

for having me. I believe dogbone grateful thanks.
