So I'm here to talk about the oath of non allegiance, which Alistair Coburn had written up a while back and says I'm going to cheat and read off his card here. I promise not to exclude from consideration any idea based on its source, but to consider ideas across schools and Heritage's in order to find the ones that best suit the current situation. So I think that's a really important way to think about what we try to do. When we do Agile, especially in organizations. There's a lot of different things that we need to consider. There's different technical communities, there's Ruby, there's dotnet, there's closure, none of these things are better than any other thing. They're just different tools. But you go a little bit broader than that. And there's coders and testers and designers, and operations folks. And we can learn things from each of these specialty practices as well. You go even further out. And you can see there's different methodologies, there's Kanban, there's Scrum, there's XP, there's crystal, all of these things came from really smart people with really different experiences. And there's similarities and differences to understand and study there. If you go out further, you see there's different ideologies like lean, like agile and different philosophical underpinnings of values and principles to these things. And it's really important to see what's driving some of those things as well. On top of that, you can see there's kind of whole other schools of thought that aren't directly related to software development, like systems thinking, complexity, theory, anthropology, economics, statistics, things like that. And they all interweave together. And probably the furthest that you can go is things that are seemingly tangential to what we do in self development, Agile transformation, anything like that. Gardening, writing, spirituality, just any, any other area of study. And I think you'll find that as you get deeper in any one thing that you do, the more things tend to relate. So to simply rule out anything just based on its source or its philosophy is probably kind of silly. So I guess the biggest takeaways for me on the oath is don't be dogmatic. Don't, don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Actually, consider other thoughts and ideas. Think about them and think about your own context. Keep an open mind. And ultimately, don't be afraid to try new things count on your ability to be able to learn, reflect and adapt to move forward.
