It's my pleasure today to introduce John star who's coming with joining us all the way from Cleveland, Ohio. John is an Agile and Lean coach and a president and CEO of Lean dog, and agile consulting coaching and training company. You know, as the world has been forced to find new ways of connecting and collaborating, John has found ways to continue to embrace an Agile and Lean mindset. He'll be talking to about some of the tools and techniques that I worked for him and and how they can they can be leveraged to foster connection and togetherness, even in a remote and distributed world. So thank you for being with us today, John, and warm welcome from agile Toronto, over to you.

Okay. Thank you. So let me share my screen. Okay, so yeah, this is my thank you for having me. I'm one of the few Americans was able to cross the border, I think. So. We're in Cleveland's, or across the pond. And I look forward to this. So this is my first quick talk. It's kind of like a lightning talk. For me. I talk fast anyway, so this shouldn't be a problem. But we're going to fly through a lot of slides. And my goal today is to share with you some best practices when we got thrown into this pandemic. So I've been a lean dog we started 12 years ago, I grew up in Pittsburgh live in Cleveland, went to Ohio State used to be a software developer. That was my passion. I also got an econ degree. And the notice for a while, since XP, days before 2000, before the manifesto in 2001. This is our office in Cleveland. So we are on the water. That's at 92 bar, boats, toys. Once this pandemic, it's over, come visit us got 110 parking spots, toys are right next to the Coast Guard, a Rock Roll Hall of Fame. We're tied to World War Two submarine. So there's some neat stuff to do in Cleveland. So love to have you come over. Prior to starting lean dawg, I was leading the transformation for nationwide. That's how I got my start in this I hired ThoughtWorks. Back in 1998. They helped me do extreme programming, and got pretty passionate about it was eventually asked to help transform how 5000 people worked, and did that for six years and eventually started lean dog. So this is my passion. So today, what I'm gonna talk to you about is, are three techniques to enable open workspace information radiators, and provide a positive feedback for your agile teams. So let's talk about open workspace. So right prior to COVID, right, it was one of the first in our class, the first thing we would teach us, Hey, y'all need to set up a workspace share a monitor, share a screen, pair share everything you learn, create this continual learning environment, reduce waste, because, you know, we're community constantly focused on value. And we're focusing on how to get value delivered. And so that's great, but then COVID hits. And now that sounds like it's insane, because people could potentially get sick and die. So overnight, we were all thrown into this world of Okay, now, how do we do Agile without an open workspace? And just like we're today, we're on a zoom call, I think we've all been kind of zoomed to death, we were in a happy open workspace environment, getting all the benefits of that. And then we move into zoom. So after, when COVID hit lien dog, we've been working with a firm out of Paris, France, to actually call to Coco, that and we aren't partners with them, we just we were at the time. And we basically, were working on how can we provide distributed agile. So right now, when we talk to all of our corporate customers, one of the biggest complaints is death by meetings. I mean, like one hour video, call a video call video call. And as you know, it takes time to schedule these meetings, people tend to show up a little bit late sometimes. So every meeting seems to start like five or 10 minutes after the start time, because we're always waiting on someone. And then of course, since we're human, we want to be cordial with each other. So it's like, Hey, how was your weekend? You know, how's COVID treating you? You know, how's your family? And so we always start off with some chatter at the beginning. Because that's what you do when you start an hour long meeting. You kind of be cordial as humans, and have that environment. Well, that's great. And it's nice. That's also a little bit of waste. Because we all know each other, maybe we can just get the work. And we were an open workspace we really have that. So let's talk about let's talk I'm sorry, went backwards. So one of the challenges with one of the benefits of workspace was that finding information is motion and lean. Right? So anytime you get stuck with your work, and I need to ask Noel or or Jeff or somebody a quick question. I typically just want to say Hey, can you help me with this piece of information so I can continue to move my work forward. And when we are in this virtual distributed environment, it's hard to know that but Everybody's remote. You're working from home, you can't tell who's busy, who's not busy. You can't look across the room and see, Am I interrupting? Noel? I'm just good time to talk to Jeff. And also I can't hear other conversations. So I don't know who's talking to who I don't know what meetings everybody else is in. And I don't know what they're talking about. Right. And we had that when we had an open workspace. And that was one of the biggest benefits of an open workspaces. Are those two things right? Getting unblocked because you need information or jumping in and overhearing other conversations, contributing your knowledge and getting the work done. And so scheduling meetings takes time. It's hard to do, and it's never fun. So I'm going to show you a tool called JaCoCo. And this tool was it's pretty early stages of development. It's been around for a while, the company was kind of struggling pre COVID. Now they're growing at like 33,000%, because of COVID. So what you're looking at here is a blueprint, okay. And this is the blueprint of an office. This is a custom office we had made for lien dog because we're on the water. So you can see there's a boat, and there's all these different rooms. Now what I want to do is I'm actually going to give you a live demo, let me do share, and move over to cocoa and show you this in action. So this is my Lyndoch team. This is my back office. You can see we have different rooms. We have a marketing room staffing room, a finance room, my room, we have a team room, Amy has a room. And these folks are all busy. So Amy's over here, I could jump over to the team room. So I click over into here. I can right click on Amy, and I could do I could work. I can get Amy, I shouldn't be able to her is her door locked. I can get July's. I can get Josh. So what I'm doing is saying, Hey, I'd love to have a conversation with you. So instead of scheduling a call, I'm doing a get request, basically. And Amy must have her door lock. So I must be I need to knock on John as a demo going good. We're just starting. So July CES in Las Vegas. Double click them to their own. So I'm over here. Let me move my screen around a little bit. So now what I need to do is I need to go to my microphone on. I'm gonna turn my video on. I'm trying to do a get on Amy. But I think she's got her door locked. And Josh is over here. Okay, so there we go. Didn't work. So, so I just basically called July's. And so what's nice is that I can have that quick conversation with July since a July. So I'm stuck on this story card. I need a little bit information. Can you help me if he thinks so we can pull other people into the room. July Stan has to turn on his microphone. And anybody can look in this room. Let me move my screen around a little bit bigger. You can look in the room, you can see that I'm actually talking. So if you notice how John's blinking that's blinking because my microphones on. If I wanted to share my screen, I could do that I won't do that. Another icon would pop up and see him sharing my screen. So what's nice about that July is obviously in Las Vegas, different timezone, you start sometimes early in the morning, there's often times where you live shows up for work, he signs into civico, I sign in, I see choices in his room, and I can quickly call him for a conversation. So we use this quite a bit. We use this to run our company. And we you know, we're having a business development meeting, we all know to jump in and business development room, we're going to talk marketing, we all know to click in the July there's room for working on staffing or finance. So we all just move about to the different rooms that we need. And again, you also have this locked door feature. So if I was in this room, and I didn't want anybody in I could lock the door. So now it's you can't just click into my room and over here my conversation. But if you're curious about we're talking about as well, it looks like there's a party going on the team room, three people were in there, you could just jump into the room and we say, you know, this is what we're talking about. So we will rename the team rooms based on the subject we're talking about. I can also mark mark my status as available that way busy Do Not Disturb. Right now we're using a CoCo video. But it also integrates with zooms Google teams,

Google, Microsoft Teams and all the other video tools. I think so Coco realized when COVID hit that they didn't want to become a video company. And that's because of security standards they want to embrace other video means. And again, it feels gives us that sense of place. I feel like Hey, I know everybody's around. I can see John's talking to Amy. And we can jump in it also supports chat and integrates with Slack. I can even send a guest link. So if I wonder like one of you who are part of lead dog and you're in my licensing, I can send you a guest link and then you can bounce into my room. And when you join me for a meeting in my room, you can't just go all around lean dog. You can't jump into dialyzers room say what's going on. I'm going to eavesdrop on their marketing plan. Right. You would have seen I would actually have to escort you so i could i Get clicking visualizes room, do a get request and then pull you along with me. So I'm doing this live demo, because this has definitely been a game changer for us. And we're working with our corporate customers. Again, we aren't not partners, we don't get any royalties and so on us to Coco. But it's given me that that sense sense of hey, team, and that ability to ping people, you can also have different rooms. So if you're working with a large company, up top, you see lean dogs. But if I had, let's say, I was, I don't know, Progressive Insurance, and I had a IT department or a Claims Department or a x ray department, you could have different blueprints for all the different departments in your company. So if you want to walk the floors, and basically go visit the marketing team, you could just switch from your team to the marketing team, and pop over there and have a chat with them. So it's been a pretty cool tool for us. They've been trying to scale. Somebody bought them in July sync three is the name of the company, they own a bunch of other tools, it's like $15 a month, and you get access to all their other tools if you buy it. So it's been it's been good for us. It's really reduced waste in a lot of ways. Because we don't have these one hour zoom meetings. Now we have this kind of impromptu ability to click around. So yeah, there's a lot more to it. But that's something you can google and check out. So let me exit that. And we go back to, again, my browser back to the presentation. Okay. All right. So I talked to these features, if you get the slide deck, all the talking points that I talked about should be in here. So let's talk about information radiators now, so pre COVID, right, you know, the power information radiator was it, it's really easy for humans to agree to things and agree that, you know, we're we all we're all on the same page. But then when we start to make things visible, physical through information, raters paper on the wall, we realize, wow, we're just off by a little bit. So that's going to shape our problem solving capabilities. Because if we're off just by just a hair, the action that we need to take to solve that problem could be different. So you know, once we get get on the same page to paper, and physical walls, now we can converge. And we can actually come up with a plan that we all 100% agree on, we aren't just nodding our head, yes, we actually understand the current state. And we can determine a future state and move to it. So that was great pre COVID. Right. And, in fact, that really, dog we relied on that heavily. In fact, so much so that when we lead transformations, we create what we call an A via, which is a big visible room in Japanese terms. And we let me see if my screen shares in the way here. And so we would basically create a big visual room. So we would go into a company, pre COVID. And we'd say, Okay, let's visualize everything you're doing. Right. So from what are your what's your mission, your vision, your company goals, your business domains, your plans, your organizational design, we put brown paper up, and we would we put brown paper up and we start visualizing. So this is an example we're looking at some ways organizational design, we're gonna visualize the future state of high performing teams, we would do all kinds of rooms like this. And it was great. Here's an org chart that we did pre COVID. Here's demand funnel. Here's technology soup, what's your architecture or your technologies that you're working with? Right, we here's more demand. So we did this quite a bit. So COVID hits and we're like, Okay, now what are we going to do? And we value stream map? I used to map out your work, right? I'm sure I'm not showing that you guys can't see the presentation. I was just gonna say, John, I think sharing the the app. Okay, let me do that. I didn't realize that. Okay, that's not good. Let's go back to chrome. Okay. Let me go back back a couple. So bottom line is we use the information radiators right to kind of visualize out. Can you see it now?

Yeah, yes, we can. Okay, so we

do a lot of information radiators with companies to kind of understand their demand, their value stream map, their agile adoption, their practices, their technology soup, right. And once we got a good understanding of their culture, then we could create a transformation plan that makes sense. So COVID hits and we're like, Okay, now what do we do? So there's two tools that we've been playing with Miro and mural, okay. And it's ironic that they're almost called the same thing. And they do almost the same thing. So they're pretty close in competition. We did a bake off. We first started with Miro, and use that to create whiteboards in work. This is an example of us running our back office, we had a Kanban board and we're left with a retrospective. We had sprint goals on how we run the company. We did that for I don't know three or four weeks. And then we started playing with mural, which is a competitor to them. Very, very similar products. We this is an example of a retrospective at Lena org. This is an example of current sprint goals that we did and you may be able to drop post it notes in pictures. There's tons of templates, integrations. And they also have, in this case, agile templates. So they have a roadmap retrospective, a wall of work. And we basically decided at lien dog we'd like mural better. We thought that usability was better. And then just recently like, see here, August 25. Right What days today, so. So they recently raised a whole bunch of capital because everybody's invested in online collaboration tools. They also announced a ton of Zapier integrations. And so we're pretty we're pretty big fans of mural right now, integrating with anything from Atlassian, to JIRA, to slack that Trello, just 1000s of integrations, and we've been using it to create these big visual rooms. The third tool that I want to share with you guys is okay, how do you do feedback. And this is something that we were doing at lean dog pre COVID, because we were trying to figure out how to become a good distributed agile coaches. And the reason is the tool that we use is called workplace. So Facebook basically took Facebook, they, in my opinion, copied it right and created workplace, workplaces only for corporations. Okay, we've been using this for Jesus, almost two years now, we were a beta out of Silicon Valley, using this, maybe three years now. And the reason it works is the like button, right? The power of the like button. So for us, you know, we have about 50 people at lean dog, we have clients all over the place all over the globe. And I have lots of agile coaching transformations we're doing. And I can't be everywhere at once. But I want to keep up with things, but I don't want to be down in the weeds. So what workplaces allows us to do is go in and basically see, you know, basically a bulletin board of discussions about whether we're talking about coaching, we're talking about leadership, we're talking about finance, we're talking about specific client, we have different kinds of rooms and groups for these different things. And I can go out at my convenience, and kind of read the thread and say things like, Hey, Doug Morgan, happy birthday to Amy and, you know, just as happy birthday. And you know, people have that magical like button. So in very little time I can go bounce through our clients bounce through the general forum, bounce through our coaching forums. And just like a bunch of things, I don't have to write the perfect email. I don't have to add the perfect emoji, right. But I people know that a Jon's actually paying attention at the surface level and he likes what he's seen. Okay, and so that's been a pretty cool tool for us. And we've been using that, like I said, pre COVID. Um, it has chat as video, there's all these tools have kind of similar thing. We don't use the chat or the video features of this. We use that in Sokoto, we just use this for having good group discussions and comments and things like that. Yeah, so that's my quick talk. I don't know how long it took me, but

you almost hit, you almost hit the timing mark. bang on. So well done. Congratulations. And thank you. That was nice. A couple of questions have already come in through the chat. Some people have sent them privately to me, which is fine. Happy to happy to get those or if you want to post your question. Publicly, you can do that as well. Or third, if you just want to say in the chat. Hey, Jeff, I've got a question. I'll make sure that that I get a chance to get a chance to call you on that. One of the interesting questions that came up, John is as we were going through this talked about facilitation in a virtual environment and engaging people in a different way. I'm wondering if you have any sort of experience or thoughts as to, you know, these tools are emulating a lot of the in person conversations. But what's had to what's had what has had to change and what's been able to stay the same in terms of actually facilitating great conversations using these tools.

So it's a great question. So, you know, just like, you know, if I was if any of us were standing up an Agile team, usually one of the first thing you do is you establish your team norms. Right. So when are we going to have our ceremonies? When what's our behavior going to be across the team? You know, what time stand up retrospective show entails? So I think the biggest one was cover for me has been turn your video on. Okay. Had to be a new team norm. You know, it's even now like, it's hard. Right now, I can see three of you, right? out of, you know, 6252 or something. And so, you know, out of respect, you know, that's one of the Hey, thank you. There you go. Turn them on. Yeah. And so that's one of the big things is asking people to turn their video on. And obviously, mute, you know, there's got to be a good moderator who can mute people, because no matter what, I got a tractor driving up here in the background. I don't know if you can hear it. But there's always something going on, because we're all working from home. So the noise distractions are big. And so yeah, it's the biggest one is readjust your team norms and say, how should we behave when we're virtual? And having a camera on to me is the biggest one because it's hard to see if you're picking up what I'm putting down if I can't see, you

know, that's, that's cool. When you started using SoCoCo, and some of these other tools and all of this, this virtual collaboration, how did the quantity to two parts of this actually How did both the quantity and quality of the interactions change or evolve? Or did they?

Yeah, that's a good question. Um, So we cut, when we started using some cocoa, we immediately got out of meeting paralysis, right? Because we said, hey, we have the right to walk up to anybody and tap on the shoulder and get information, or share information. So that that was huge. In fact, we've deployed this now to two or three with three corporate customers. And they found the same thing they weren't, I asked them, Hey, how's it working? Is it while I'm working more hours with COVID than I did before, because I'm in meeting after meeting after meeting, I don't have time to get work done. Like I don't have time to get hands to the keyboard to get work done. And they also find that people will multitask because we're human. So that's why you turn your video off. And so if you turn your video off, you could do whatever you want, I'm not going to know the difference. And so, you know, they found that they were having more meetings, getting less quality, because people were multitasking, right, because they could turn their screen off and just do what they want. And so when we went when we go to sit cocoa, it's pretty in your face, we do our stand up to read everything we do, is in there and, and there is no option we don't ever talk without the screen on. And we're all in, it's always superb. And if I if I'm busy, I can change my status to busy or unavailable, I can say, hey, I'm speaking agile Toronto, I'll change my status to say that. And then people know, John, or I'm walking my dog or I'm cutting the grass, whatever it is. So I think that's helped, I think we update our unavailable status to be much more accurate now out of respect for each other, rather than just saying, Hey, I'm busy. I don't have to deal with it, though. Here's what I'm doing. And this is important.

It sounds like you've got a lot of great practices that have evolved from this. I'm curious, you know, what do you know now? We're seven months, eight months into into to working this way? What do you know, now that you wish you'd known seven or eight months ago?

No, that's a good question. I think, you know, I would have a clue that would have invested in online collaboration tools. As an investor, I probably wouldn't have a 10,000 square foot boat that I'm paying around on knowing that this pandemic is coming. I think that's a good question. What would I wouldn't know now, I do think the good thing about COVID is has been that people are open to change, because their world just got rocked. Right. So for us, you know, while our sales are definitely decreased, because everybody's risk adverse, right. Nobody knows the ripple effect of the supply chain, and country trades and all these things. But I think that when we do work with companies, they're like, Wow, I just had my whole world turned upside down. I'm much more open to change. So I think it's a great time. That's why we call it you know, we're giving out free training right now. We call it our agile stimulus package. And we've trained, we went online with overtraining, we've trained almost 2500 people since COVID. Start for free, with 12 hours online training. And, you know, it's it's definitely people the questions I would get pre COVID were much more blockers are negatives, that can never happen here to Oh, my God, I never thought a pandemic pandemic would come. Maybe this agile stuff isn't so bad. Great. You know, I need to be open to change.

Let me let me just touch on that. That training. That sounds really cool. How do we get involved in that?

Yeah, so just, I can send out a link to the group afterwards. But it's two and a half hours a day. It's it's Monday through Friday, I think the next one we're doing on West Coast time. So it's one to 330. And yeah, we'll send you a link just enter Agile to and it's free. And we've been averaging about 40 people for class about 200 people showing up. And you can go to one module where all the modules based on whatever your level of knowledge is, will cover everything from design thinking to DevOps to testing.

And is it just you talking for those 12 hours? No,

we have five coaches, then we've pre recorded the videos, but we play and we do live chat, live q&a. And then if you want to, if anybody's like PMI or anything about that we actually do give out a certification

for the credits. That's cool. Any Canadians featured on those videos?

Yeah. Yeah. Was on the poker wall. If you know, everybody knows, Paul.

Excellent. So that's awesome. You went out and got some fantastic coaches for that workshop. And I can't believe you know, giving it away for free is a really great, great offer. really generous. So listen, thinking, you know, year or two or three into the future. I don't know, I don't know when it's going to be. And it depends, I guess, on who you talk to. But imagine when this this COVID, you know, is a distant memory or at least just a fact of life. And, you know, we're we're, we're I don't want to say back to normal, but we're at the point where we're engaging back in face to face conversations. What aspects of of the remote collaboration in the remote conversations do you think do you think you'd want to keep?

Yeah, I saw so that's a great question. I don't think we're ever going back to normal. I think there's a new normal, right I mean, some of our customers I have one customer, they had 42 buildings, and they've already decided to get rid of 36 of them. Okay, so, and I think, you know, a lot of people were saying that we, we hired trustworthy people, and we trust them, and empower them, we trust them to work from home. So I think that there's always now I think that I think the world has changed, I think there will always be a blend of work from home and work in the office at the at each company. So these online tools are getting huge investments in them. At the end of the day, it's all about people and communication. And I don't I don't think I you know, it's kind of scary. I don't know, think we're ever gonna go back to the the playtime, where everybody goes to work five days a week. Most companies aren't we only I only know one company in the States, I can talk about that large paint manufacturer, they're going back October 1. That's that's the only company out of all the companies I know, who are even going back and most of them are saying that some people think they're more productive worker remote. I think that my take on that is, of course, if you asked me, Do you like working with home? Yeah, it's nice. You know, I can do things I can never do. But, you know, I don't think I don't think they had a good measure on productivity before this, to say, you know, yeah, we're just as productive, I think might be the same, because there was just a lot of waste. That's my God.

If, if you're willing, could you post the link to the training in the chat? And that way people can drop off for prime minister or something, then they've got that link? Yep, I'll do that right now. Perfect time, we're actually just, we've only got a couple of questions left, but we are at 630. So if there are, if there are, if anyone does need to drop, by all means there's a feedback survey in the chat window, if you can take 30 seconds to complete that, that survey, love to get the feedback on what you liked and didn't so that we can continue to continue to think about who we get for these sessions and the format and structure that they take. But there are a couple of questions left if if folks are able to stay? Maybe before we get to those. Alex, I know you had a question. Are you able to unmute yourself and and get your question asked?

Yeah. Can you hear me? Yep. Yeah. Hi, John. Hi, everyone. So you know, I am an Agile coach in an international organization, we have multiple offices. And we I can my view, the productivity has went up. But but something that I'm noticing is that while the the global productivity went up, the local productivity is sort of here in there. And one of the biggest challenges I find it because we don't have this face to face is how do we improve a synchronous communication? So written communication, and it's been really hard to get people on board, everyone wants to have meetings, and that means meetings at 11pm. For some people, and some people in the morning, I'm wondering if you have seen that? And if there is any thoughts and like in your world around a synchronous communication, how to improve writing practices, so that people can understand each other better, without having to be synchronous all the time? Yeah,

I mean, that's one of the reasons we use workplace by Facebook, because people saw that work life balance, especially when you're distributed across the globe. And so when you go back that how are we going to have new team norms and COVID. One is a turn your video all the time, another one could be alright, every time we do have a group meeting, we're going to take some meeting minutes, and we're going to put it in workplaces in Facebook. So if there's somebody around the world that couldn't make that meeting, there's at least some talking points or, or better yet, videos, pretty easy. Why don't we just record these zoom calls or video calls and attach them in the workplace by Facebook? Just if we can't get 100% participation? So, you know, I also, you know, we're big on org design, I think one of the biggest mistakes people make when they go Agile, is they don't reorganize for for high performing teams. And so I always say, Wow, if I'm going to work with a team in India, and Brazil, and China, why don't have whole teams, and each of those locations, instead of having the skill spread across three different countries. And so, you know, I challenge people to challenge your organization, are you is your organizational structure, right? Or is it just I can't imagine not working with, with Jeff or Simon. So, you know, we're going to we're going to put up with all that challenge we have with different time zones and different cultures. So, you know, I always start with, you know, really reflecting on is that the right org design to begin with, you know, I went to I've been to a lot of countries and studied lots of cultures, and I still think that, you know, I like seeing whole Standing Teams in their own culture, whether it's India, China, Brazil, or, or London, there are US or Canada, you know, put up high standard performing teams there if you can, if you're a big enough company to do that. If you're not big enough, then you're probably gonna have to deal with being highly distributed and all the extra overhead it takes to have communication.

Alex, just just to build on John's answer, and I'm not supposed to answer questions here because I'm supposed to be asking them But there's a fantastic book that came out by Mark Kilby and Jonathan Dinah Rothman called from chaos to successful distributed agile teams worth every penny to invest in that book. It's an excellent, excellent book full of great ideas on how to deal with a multinational situation, and the same patterns that that they've observed in their time. The book is called from chaos to successfully distributed agile teams. I'll post the link at some point, as soon as I can get a second here. But John, last last couple of questions that that have come in, unless anyone else has any, is just wondering if you can talk about the amount of time people are spending in meetings with the switch from physically needing to get people in meetings, or setting up zoom calls or setting up booking meeting rooms, versus the ability just to grab people and, and, and have these these meetings virtually?

Yeah, I can only speak from our customers and what they've told us but your average customer saying that they're in meetings at least six hours a day. That's what it feels like to them. And then they have to try to get their work done, when they aren't in these meetings. And when I asked him, uh, what was that like pre COVID? They would, most of them would say maybe three to four hours a day. I think people were already meeting to death if they weren't agile. So, yeah, that's my gut. I've never done a case study or any metrics or scientific analysis around that. But when we went when I, almost every customer we talk to or go to lunch or video chat with, and we show them scope, because they're like, oh, my god, that was solve a real problem I have, which is getting out of meeting paralysis. And okay, somebody else Gabriel's use the tool? Yeah, it does feel like you're working in the same space. And I yeah, I even do things like on a Friday, I'll say I click on everybody, say, Everybody grab a beverage. Let's talk about our week, how you guys all doing? I'll pull people together. So or, Hey, let's celebrate something. And so it gives me that whole impromptu. You know, they used to have an open space that I really missed.

Awesome. If people want to find out more about you, or more about what lien dog does, or this training, I know you posted the link to the training, what's the best way for folks to get in touch with you?

john@lynda.com. That's simple.

Wonderful. Listen, this has been great. What an awesome, awesome sort of intro to tie something. And I'm just going to sort of reflect back something that I heard that it was, you know, and you started this off, John, by talking about the fact that it's individuals and interactions over processes and tools as the first as the first value. It almost sounds like what you're saying is individuals and interactions enabled by processes and tools. Yeah, if you ever heard my talks,

especially my Kanban talk, I am not a tool fan. But you know, I had to I was forced to change myself. And when this happened, I still think that, you know, I think it's a big place for physical things. And I especially when it comes to the backlog, because the challenge we have with the tools, people can instantly throw stuff in the backlog. And it's hard to wrap your mind around a 13 or 17 or 30 inch screen about how much backlog there is and I missed that. But that's not going away. So we got to adapt. So now it's a matter of how can we embrace technology to do that. We've also been playing with augmented reality. We've been doing state daily stand ups with Oculus devices. And if you just I wouldn't do that every day because your your head will explode. But if you say every Friday is Oculus stand up day, and you put on an AR headset and you're all avatars. It makes for a lot of laughs especially when people change what they look like.

That's really cool. Thanks again, John. Tom know anything to add before we wrap this up? Oh survey. If you get a minute, John's posted the survey in the chat window, if you can take you know 30 To 40 seconds to complete it. Love to get your feedback on it. John, thanks so much for this. No, Tom, back over to you too.

Well, I'm, I really enjoyed that. And, John, I'm really curious about that last point you made about using VR for those weekly sessions. It's something I've been thinking about as well. So I'll definitely follow up with you offline about that Oculus strategy that that sounds super interesting.

Awesome. And thank you all for attending. And thank you, John, for sharing your very valuable learnings with all of us. In our video recording this session will be available on our YouTube channel. So feel free to check that out and share it within your network. And you know, one of these days we will all be meeting in person again and until then, stay healthy and stay safe.

Thanks so much.
