About a born American awareness. Always want to wear a breadboard. So I didn't think about how the mic was going to work though, with the breadboard. So let me try. Alright. Okay, can't reach you. I didn't test first. So there you go adaption at its best. Okay. So I spent a lot of time trying to help companies. I'm John saw, by the way from lean dog. And I spent a lot of times trying to help companies go Agile, right? And at the end of the day, I always ask Can it be? Will it really be sustainable? Right. And and I'll tell you, I don't know, I think that we're missing some as coaches. And so my latest passion has been talking about how can we actually change, change? Executive Leadership, right? So do as I say, not as I do, right? Most Agile is do not practice agile, they don't get the values, they don't get the principles, they want you to practice it, but they don't get it. Right. So they think they support it, right? Because they're saying, Hey, be transparent, do all these wonderful things. But I don't have to do that, right? I'm just gonna sit in my office and, and tell you what to do. I don't have to, I don't have to live the values, right. So they don't practice, right. And that's it. That's partly because they don't know how to write. So I'm challenging us as coaches to say, as coaches, we need to think about not just coaching our teams, because we keep focused on software delivery. But if we want this culture to be sustainable, we need to coach executives on how to do this, they aren't going to figure out how to do this. Right. So there's lots of ways we can help them do that. And I'm gonna propose a whole bunch and Patrick's gonna help me but he doesn't know. Right? Okay. So that's right to where you guys come in, right? We need to take techniques. We practice every day that work in software delivery, that just work in good organizations and good teams, and take those upper level right. As coaches. Remember, we focus on delivery teams, we need to coach up this is where I turn around is where Patrick comes up. And you helped me read my back. Right? So I should have had a mirror but that didn't work. It is yeah, use my read some of those, Patrick for me,

as an executive. I will sign the Agile Manifesto. Be transparent, radiate information. Create a big visual What the heck is a big

visual I made it up with a big room. I'll tell you about tomorrow got 25 boards against the wall. talking behind my back and

practice, create a manifest is support office. Goodness support case in limit work in progress. Speaking stories work by value practice stand ups, retrospectives and escalating robots, lead by example, eliminate waste, eliminate waste, promote the XP values. I have signed the John off stole.

Thank you. So the whole point is the definition of Done means when we start teaching executives how to practice the same things. It makes us successful all the way up, building up visibility, so they can see how they manage financials, assets, people, competencies, procurement, everything, right? We need to teach them out of high art techniques that work on teams, all the way of how they think of the world so that they can radiate what they do, they can speak in stories and we can then click with them and create a sustainable culture. So that's what I'm talking about.
