All right, well, thanks everyone for coming. Appreciate being down here in Columbus. This is an hour and 15 minute talk. So a couple things you know is one we're gonna we are being filmed. So the cameraman wanted me to solve the glare problem I have. But uh, so please, yeah, everywhere I go, I have the same problems. And so if you ask questions, just please don't use profanity unless you want that to be public. So it's good to be here. So this is our backlog we're gonna get through. So it's on your card that we gave out to you. I think there's nine steps there. We dropped to zero but same idea. A little bit about me. So I'm actually from Pittsburgh, I grew up actually went to Ohio State, got an econ degree and CIS degree, moved back and forth all over the place. Pittsburgh, went back to Cleveland, spent a lot of time in the Columbus area. At one point, the company I was working for got acquired by nationwide, and we were the small insurance company up in Cleveland. And I had built three or four agile teams and the CEO were the stepchild. So the CIOs came up to see us. And they're like, this can't possibly work. Like you guys are having fun. And this place is weird. And who are your customers? And I said, well, they sit next to you in Columbus. And so he went to see him. And when I approached him, the first thing he said was, God, please don't make them work like it. Right. And so it was kind of a shocking moment to hear that but the CIO. So they kept sending people up to observe us. And finally, they said, Hey, listen, how would you like to help us try to change how often you know, 1000s of people work in Columbus is a great, I said, there's a lot of great people in Columbus trying to do this, but there are corporate and so mom and dad are home all day. So it's harder for them to break the rules and remove process and waste. So I spent the next six years doing that for for nationwide, part of a great agile team, building out their delivery center. And then at some point, when 2008, I decided I was going to start my own company, and went on to do that. So I can remember that doesn't change. Most people know, at least because we have a boat. So if you're up in Cleveland, you're welcome to visit us. This is a 1892 steamship. So it's like 20 years older than Titanic. One of the reasons we have a boat is when we teach organizational change. One of the benefits of working down here in Columbus, I got to hang out with a lot of people that have backgrounds in psychology, sociology, organizational development, things way beyond a computer, computer science and economics. So whenever I was gonna start my company, I wanted someplace that really was different, where we've kind of broke all the rules. So as soon as you walk in our office, he's like, really, you bought a boat, this old and now you're gonna renovate it. And it's it was it has an amazing story, it used to be twice as long, and they cut the top off and cut in half, and then they build a restaurant on it. So this was 175 person restaurant with an 80 seat bar. And then we bought it and we renovate. At the end of this, you'll see the before picture of the renovation that didn't have this top and did have boats or docks, or sea doos or any fun. So you couldn't open a window, because they were afraid that there would be odor from the water and it would ruin the restaurant atmosphere. So we gave access. Now the picture from afar some of our toys. Even in winter, when it's cold, we have fun. So this is our hockey rink out on the lake Erie, and we have a curling rink and we have an isolation tent. So you got to make the best of it. One of the best parts of coming to Columbus is sun. So always seems like it's always sunny down here was often very gray up in Cleveland. So you got to make the best of it. What do we do at lean dawg, we coach and we built software. The initial vision was 20, great people building software having fun, a very good thing. We have about 60 people and we go in and we help companies do transformations. And then we teach them how to fish and then we leave. So we don't do staff augmentation, we're proud of get turning cultures up and creating happy work environments, with with great business value delivered. When we talk about what we do this is this is the transformation side of our business. So we coach at the team level, the PMO level and the executive level. This talk is all about how we coach at the executive level. It's not a salesperson, this is something that it's super simple, like most of the stuff we do in Agile. So there should be some things you should be able to pull out of here that you can go back and immediately practice at least that's my goal today is to make sure you can go back and try something and get value out of this. So about this talk. So when I started lean dog, first of all, I had never consulted in my life to start a consulting company mistake. But when I did that, I was determined how can I run my company Lean and Agile? You know, it's one thing to build software products and teams and features and product owners and get requirements and all that. We solve that problem. We've been doing it. It was my job to do that. But now it's like, okay, how do I actually work as a leadership team and do this? So it was hard. It's it's been a six year journey to try to forget to do this. So this is just the current state of this. In 2008. I had a talk about agile from the top down. And it was the beginnings of this. It was basically my study, I was speaking on it trying to get feedback because I was like, Well, how are you? Is anybody else trying to do this? Like tell me how you're running this leadership team level. How many people in here are leaders or managers? Okay, so hopefully, if you get something out of stock and you use it, please tell me because it's, I don't get an opportunity to work with many companies are trying to do it to this extreme. And so if you don't want to, I can learn from you. And so in your in, perhaps, you know, in advance how we do this. So we've, we the interesting thing that happened is about two years ago customers started coming to the boat to visit us and check us out. And they see they come upstairs and and see how we run the company, they see all these walls and all all these techniques I show you are things we do every day. And when they saw it, they're like, Hey, can you come back and help us do it. And our goal wasn't to create a new product, our goal was just to try to run a company and businesses in a lean and agile fashion. So we've since then have been engaged to do eight of these. We spent down in Columbus, Cardinal Health has been six weeks down here at the fuse, great group of people great leadership team, and we help them do theirs. And we've done a bunch of Palo Alto and all over the place. But we only practice this eight times. And every time we do it is changing substantially because we're finally applying it outside leaned on context, into your context. And we're learning a heck of a lot more as we do it. Okay, so what types of people this is interesting to us, too, because we can expect this. There's certain situations where people want to adopt this, this framework, I call it a framework, it's just a collection of our practices, our best practices. But, you know, basically, sometimes the the situation is teams are going Agile, and these actions aren't just kind of like you're the parent. And it's a shadow of a leader, right, and I kind of telling you to make your bed, clean your room, you know, go back to kindergarten work and open workspace, put your homework on the wall, but I'm not willing to do that as a leader, right? It's a double standard. So often, when we go in, we engage the customer says, Great, we're helping the delivery team, or your executives willing to act the same way, and follow the same values and principles as your team's right. Another scenario is startup to set up. So you know, startup companies get going, they need to, if things start getting bigger, they start getting successful, and they need to establish some cadence to how they work and how they practice. In other words, and same same, we set up the scale, sometimes the world that you're leading and manage, it gets too big that you can't keep tabs of it, right, there's lots of moving parts on a leadership team of what you're responsible for. So at some point, you can't and lean thinking you can't see the whole, right, you can't see everything that's going on. But you have to have some level of autonomy and control and trust. And so a lot of times it's a scalability issue where I go, so let me scale, sometimes a new CIO or C level person coming to organization, they take the job, they go through all the interviews, they really don't know what they're getting into, until they walk through that door and start understanding understanding the system. So we've been asked for some people who are doing executive searches, hey, why don't you come in and do this executive thing, kind of paint the walls, paint the world and create this framework, and then we're interviewing people will actually walk the CIOs or leaders around there in the interview process, so they can better understand what it is they're going to be asked to lead and what they're asked to manage. Sometimes, mergers and acquisitions are obvious, because now you're taking two leadership teams, you got to clasp them together, and you got to come out as one, right? So they're both now you got to hold companies, right at leadership, they're leading different things, different ways, different styles. So they need to kind of figure out a common way to to manage and work together. And then two of those three of those eight, were actually innovation studios where, hey, we need to put innovation. So we're going to buy crazy building, we're going to put a bunch of cool people in there that have the right attitude and aptitude. And we're going to try to innovate, and we're going to take shots, things, I'll show you some of that.

Okay. So the first step to changing is kind of understanding change. And this is one of the coolest things I learned from working with people outside of my craft. How many people have seen Rogers innovation? adoption curve? Right? So we love to use the word innovation, right? Sexy, it's cool. But really what innovation means if you read it, it's an idea of practice, or an object that's perceived as new. Okay? And this goes back to sociology, really old case studies of monkeys on islands eating fruit, and they introduce a new fruit. And, you know, how long does it take for the colony to adopt if that's acceptable for food? There's a whole bunch of case studies if you if you Google that and read behind, and it just makes sense in any society. So the the notion is that there's a certain there's always, in most organizations, like 2.5% of people are innovators. Then you have early adopters, early majority, late majority and laggards. So it's often daunting when you go through change, cuz you're like, I can't imagine my company is so big, I can't imagine changing the whole company. Well, here's how it works. You don't have to change a whole company, you get the innovators and early adopters on board first, then you get the early majority. And then once you get the early majority, they'll start following and you want to lose these people. Right? Right. And that's through accountability culture. So we tell people we come in, it's like, well, we just need to get you to 20% You'll get to that tipping point. And then then sociology will kick in. And all these people are started adapting. Okay, that's true with every everything that you do. Once you get over a certain point, it starts you know, people start following it and say, wow, it is a better way and I didn't want to be first. But, but that's a better way of working and people will do it. So it's very, very easy concept. Another important thing to understand is how People go about change. So when you gotta change, first you have to be aware, something's new or different, then you have to consider it, then you have to investigate it, then you pilot, then you adopt it, say, this is how I work, and then you adapt it to what works for you. Okay? So if you look at it that way, right? That's the curve. So anytime you're gonna just change, you don't care if you're the person who's already here, you have to recognize everybody else around you is back here, or a lot of them, right? So you have to bring everybody up this curve together, right? And not assume that your knowledge, you know, is their knowledge, okay? And their willingness to change because you have kind of access, what class they're in. And then you have to try to begin to move along. So I tell people, if you're gonna invest in going Agile, or you know, make sure you invest in the right people, the people on the front of the curve, don't take your late majority and your laggards and say, Hey, let's change them. First. You're fighting really an uphill battle? Right? At that point, you're starting at the wrong end. Okay. So how do we do this? So we get engaged to help manage a team, we we've written a book, there's like 60 practices in here. From lean Kanban sociologie servant leadership, it's our vocabulary. Lean dog is what we coach on. It's not expected, you do all 60. But it's our vocabulary. So the first thing we need to do with a leadership team or executive team, and like I said, if you're on that leadership team, and you're the one agile evangelists for Lean evangelists, your peers probably aren't right, there's probably a mix of first thing you need to do is give them respect, say, let's establish a vocabulary. We do this in eight hours, sometimes we do four hours, we visit a couple of customers do four hours, then then we then we do a planning game. But nonetheless, you need to establish your vocabulary, whether it's our book or your book, it doesn't matter. But you all have to agree with that means if you if you don't have the contents of our guide, but this isn't a chapter book, it's a bunch of bullet points. Right? Here's the definition. And here's here's a, if I was gonna have a conversation with you about retrospective stand ups, Kanban, anything, these are the bullet points I would discuss with you. And now we can say so what you call a stand up is what I call a stand up, you call retro. So we need to get that right. Most really important to any society is vocabulary, right? One word, said the wrong way, right can do a lot of damage. So it's no different when you're trying to institute change, you need to identify your vocabulary first. So we do this with the executives, right. And it's eight hours, and it's fast. So they usually, they can tolerate it because you have to keep their attention span. We come out of there explaining them to Lean principles, agile practices, and systems thinking, okay, that those are the three kind of principles and they kind of know their teams are doing it, but they don't know how they how they can do this, right. And that's what we're trying to get into do. I talk really fast, you can tell. So just going too fast, just stop me. And I can repeat myself. So this is a example we did, we did training down here at Cardinal in the room. And a couple key concepts that need to come out of there with is stand ups, retrospectives. Kanban. Because Kanban teaches you limits and whip and constraints and flow. And there's a lot to be studied. Even a nationwide I think we're okay at Scrum. It wasn't until we introduced Lean thinking that we really started getting to the next level. And so the nice thing about Lean and executives is a lot of have MBAs. And they heard about Lean and Toyota way. So lean is often a better word in that culture, they use an agile. So sometimes we have agile movements. And we have that's why this is lean executive. Right? Because that you know that they can they can explain lean to their business partners better. We also teach them what servant leadership really means. And we kind of deep dive into this. Because often on leadership team, you have different leadership styles. And it's like having two fathers and to mothers, right? You got different different ways of everything. And so it's very confusing. So often, we have to kind of assess, hey, do we have command and control? Or is everybody here want to be a servant leader? Right? Because, you know, we can't, we can't kind of play both ways. And sometimes there's laggards right at every level, every team, even at the at the leadership level. And so we really emphasize these and we go through every one of these in detail to make sure they actually understand what that means. It's not just the word. Right? They actually know what that means. I have another talk that I do, where we actually map all the things we do at lean knock back to the servant leadership. So what practices uphold which pillars? And then how do we make sure we're upholding those so it's just not a word, but that's a that's a very important concept. So the goal was, after the out eight hours, we've, we've taught them the basics of what we need them to practice, they kind of understand the big vocabulary that their delivery teams are using, right, but they may never touch it, at least they now you know, it's respectful for you to know what your teams are doing at this level. So you know, at least those basics of the vocabulary. And if you forget what ATDD is, you can open up your book and say, Okay, that's right. That's what this does for us, and that's how that helps quality, etc. So we're gonna have to set the foundation. So now what we've done is we set awareness, right, we set consideration because we're talking obviously during this day, and we're saying hey, what practices out there do you like? And by the way, these are the ones we're going to coach you on each one's going to implement, and and hopefully your leadership team mostly on the left side of that bell curve. So, so you can go pretty fast into this and they adopt pretty quickly. This is a collaboration aid, this is a really important tool for us. You're going to pelo from the Netherlands came and taught a management three Dotto class at our boat. And he had taken what was called delegation something before it before that it was something else. So it's been around for a long time. And we were good at it of renaming things and throwing acronyms on him. But we didn't like the word delegation. We liked it more than word collaboration. That's really what it's about. So we, we modified it. So how many people are familiar with RACI? Right? Awesome. Awesome. Okay. So, so, yeah, I used to be that managers, I had to do all the racy stuff, and I had responsible accountable consultant forum, right. So PMI project management is to, and you felt these charts, right. And I never knew how to apply that. Right. It was just something I had to do. And so we, when we saw this with, I think that we think this is a better way, because it makes it clear. So basically, on the on, the one is tell it's like, Hey, listen, I'm gonna take accountability, I'm gonna do this. So. So the RA the responsible and accountable is one, two, and three, four is agreed, right? So here's my responsibility, but I'm going to try to get buy in from others. I want your insight, but I'm gonna decide how we work. I want to work together and solve this problem with you. On the other side, that's pairing, this is the consultant form side. So advise means, Alright, I'm gonna get I'm gonna give you the insight. And then you can, you're free to make the decisions because you're responsible. So I'll tell you everything I know about it. But you make the call. Okay. I'm truly just consulting and informing you. I'm not going to tell you what to do. Right? I don't have a right to do that. Inquire same thing like, Hey, I just want to understand what the data behind it so I can support you. So when he said, Why did you do that with a project? Oh, yeah, that's right. You know, Dan told me all about it. And this is why and I got his back. And we empowered him to do this. He's responsible and accountable, we'll see if it works or not. So it's important that to do that delegate means I kind of see it when I see it. Right? I don't want to know about it. Don't email me, don't include me just whenever it happens, it happens. And I'm sure it'll come out great. Because that can really give you a complete delegation, right, and autonomy and control. So this is how we this is what we use. The joker is kind of the the bullshit card. Right? So so that's just for fun. So it's kind of like, hey, you know, you told me to make a decision, or run with a project or do something and then it last minute you swooped in, like a seagull and you tried to change everything, right? Bullshit, here's the Joker card. Right. And I rarely see people use it. But but the notions there that, you know, we always have to refer back to we agreed to this vocabulary as a leadership team. So courage, communication, feedback, respect, simplicity, XP values, right? That that the respect part is that we have to be able to call each other out whenever they're swooping from that side to this side. And that's often what happens, right? That's a lot of the contention that happens in leadership is, is understanding that autonomy control. It's easy to say it, but it's really hard to practice it. So let me show you how we do it. So this is how we run leadec. So we sell coaching training, we have our studio development work, we count me as we love lots more than this, but it had to fit on the screen.

So we went and signed up for the work, right? So coaching Mike and I, right, we're kind of running the coaching practice, we pair with Greg and Matt taxies, as well on this, but But ultimately, him and I are responsible and accountable. Okay, so what happens when you fill out these charts? If you see a pattern, and this changes, right, and that's one of the hardest thing to do, because leadership always changes, right? You're back, I'll go into backlog, how we manage backlog, but it's always changing. So there's times where I can be over here, and they'll Hey, I gotta go out to India or Palo Alto for six weeks. Okay, guess what? I gotta I gotta move myself over here now. Right? It make that clear that I can't be managing the backlog for coaching. Because right now, I need to go off and do this. So it's just priorities are always shifting. Right? We have to be very honest about it. Otherwise, we just start dropping balls, right? And it's not clear. So while this looks like a static thing, if you come to the boat, they're actually post it notes, right. And when we do our planning game, we actually talk about shiftiness, around how the leaders lead because they're good at solving problems and removing roadblocks, right. People love startups, they love being on leadership teams. Moving around in your job to different responsibilities is fun. Okay, most people like that. But a lot of time, just like we lock in roles on delivery team, we lock in roles on a leadership team. And if you're always marketing, you're always marketing. If you're always this, we know that some of the best companies in the world they they groom their CO CEOs, by making them go across all these different decisions, because leadership is leadership. Right? You can handle the domain space. So we tried to do that too. We try to mix up who's who's over on the racy side. Right? And then we and we swap it out. So it keeps it fun for us as leaders and it's not like you're locked into a job title. We don't like job titles, right? We're just part of the leadership team. And our role for the day or the week can change based on our demands, and I'll show you how we do planning to get there. Okay, this is a really critical piece. It's called the big visual room. So one of the key concepts of information rate theatres is, again, vocabulary is whole is all about, it's all about communication. A lot of times, I gotta point that way. We all think we're on the same page, right? How many people have seen this, this picture has been around for ages old thought works diagram. So you know, as soon as you make things physical, and we put our mental models on the table, we can really realize, wow, we're just off by a little bit. But it was an important little bit, it can lead to a lot of mistrust, miscommunication, and waste. So once we're on the same page, then we can start converging, right, and get on the same page for real. So making things physical, that's how we operate as humans, when it's a lot easier idea, just the physical thing, that is a mental thing. And so we really big on that. So once we get that, that general consensus, now we can move forward. So when we take on when these cases, we go in, sometimes with four to six coaches, for anywhere from two to six weeks. And the first thing we do is we create a backlog. We can say, wow, wouldn't it be great if you had a huge room, we this is our big visual room. And we have all these walls and that wall there says, okay, you know, what's this company about? Who are our customers? Who are our products? You know, what's our technical debt? What are assets, these are just some of the walls, I think the one we did down here we built 27, or 28. Walls, down at the fuse. Yeah. And I didn't want to California we did 48. Okay, and all these walls aren't gonna stick around. But the goal was to get everybody on the same page, once you're on the same page, then we're like, okay, we need more walls. So we're managing the loss. And now let's make these walls pretty. So we're bringing UX person in to things that are pretty stagnant, like architecture and things like they'll change a lot, we'll downsize those and make the small concise, so we can free up wall space. The whole goal of this is to keep it light, and get on the same page. So we go in with a team, we create the backlog. So this was a leadership team, a big leadership team, we went through and we said, which walls we're going to create, who's responsible and accountable, right? For which walls which functions. And then we broke, and we went off, went off, and we put one or two coaches with each Exec. And we went off and we started, and we don't know anything, because we're new. Like, okay, let's paint your world on this wall. What does finance mean? What does you know? How are you structured? You know, what your application assets? Who are your customers? What are their personas? What are your? What are your program goals? What are your project goals? You know, how do you manage requests? Let's map your value stream. How do you go from intake, right to delivery to production? How do you measure business value? What are your key performance indicators? So we build out all these walls, and it's pretty, it's pretty fun to do. It's so simple to do. But it's so fun to do. Because you realize that people say, wow, I've learned so much about this. And now, when you hire people to come into your company, you walk the walls. So in the interview process, I'm gonna show you my next leader, my next developer, next year, next person, I don't care, we take him into the building, and we say, Okay, well, let's start here. It's where the tour starts. This is who we are, as customers we serve. These are our market data. These are our program goals and objectives for the years, these, how we structure these are the application assets, our technology stack, our demand funnel, these are innovation projects. Oh, and this is a team you're fitting in, and you're working on this project and this code base. Right? So it's a walking tour that anybody in your company can can tell, right? The problem is a leader, you have all this knowledge in your head, because you're managing all these different components. But but seeing the whole the people working for you don't see all that. And people good people will do the right thing, if they understand the whole system. Right? If it looks like oh, we're just changing priorities at the top and their ivory tower, verse, Oh, no, we're gonna change this and see how it impacts around the room. Right? People don't mind change, as long as they can understand how it connects, oh, we just had a new market opportunity or an acquisition or whatever it is, when we update the walls and tell that story, right? Everybody's connected to the whole picture. And we're taking the mystery out of what you lead, right? Because you're worried about all these things. You have people in your teams managing all these things. But you're sitting, if you're sitting in an office behind your computer, nobody sees that. Right? They don't get any respect for your backlog and what you're managing. And so so it's really fun to do. Pretty easy to do. We, we believe that every company has to manage three different delights, okay? You have to have customer delight. So your customers happy with your product, or business delight doesn't make business sense to do the work, right? And are your people happy? So in this case, we actually mapped all the walls back to which the lights were managing. And you can see in this case, we only had like two and a half for customer delight. So right away is why we need we need more more information radiators on our customers really happy with our products and solutions. How are we going to manage that? So this is just one example. But we manage lean dog to these delights and every company we coach and we say okay, how do we make sure it's one thing to get products out. But if you lose sight of any one of these things, you're not running a really good culture, right? You're doing the wrong things for the business. If your people aren't happy for customers are happy, you're gonna fail. So we kind of roll those up. This is a different customer company alignment. Well. I'll just show you some some. This is a in the PMO. This is shots on goal. So these are innovation projects. So the idea was we're really good at doing delivery but we never get to do new innovative stuff. So we did more of a lean startup approach for those with hypothesis and all that. And then they took shots on goal. If you see a little goalies ahead there since changed, right all these walls, if these walls aren't changing, they aren't adding value, right? Because the whole world is changing, right? If something was really static, or you quit using the wall, or it just it was just to get on the same page, and let's just freeze it, make it pretty. Don't check it into SharePoint, don't put in a wiki put up where you can't reach it put up on the wall and keep it up there. You can't see it here. But every every wall has a critical component, right? It has it has a description of the purpose of the wall and the intention behind it. And it usually has the pictures of the people who are responsible for the wall. So if I walk up this wall, and I don't get it, or I want to I, you know, I can say oh, i Who do I need to track down to understand this? Okay. This was a wall to understand the health of products, right? So they're mentioned 12 different products. This is all product ownership, KPIs, which ones are going up? Which ones are going down? Which ones are going flat? How are we measuring them? How are we measuring delight for each of these products? Right? So again, these are completely different now, but, but it was a good start. It was the first time we really had this view that people could walk up and digest. And that's the beauty of information radiators, right, is that anybody in your team and your organization should be able to walk up if you go to lean dog, you can see how much money we have in our bank account. Right? It's all on the wall. There's no it's 100% transparency. And so that what you'll find is even your developers and people here, they'll take a break, and they'll go up and they'll walk upstairs, we have our keg upstairs with a bar, right? And so it's great because we have our leadership over the top of the boat and our delivery design people down on the first floor of the boat and but what happy hour, what are they do they walk around with a beer and they check out the walls. And we talk? Right? Beer drives me nuts. That's a good attractant for walls. So just make sure it's good beer. And then, yeah, here's more walls. Here's key performance indicators work in progress. This here is a value stream map of a workflow process. This is our boat. So this is the corner of our boat. You can see all of our walls. Well, I'm trying to use the laser thing. I don't usually use this, but we're here. So you can see we have walls here that I'll show you that detail later. They're always popping up, they're always changing on Friday. So we on Friday, after our stand up, we all clean for 15 minutes, we put on polka music, because noise most people, and it's kind of like musical chairs. And for 15 minutes, you have to go around and clean up your boat because we're all adults. And we have to put stuff away. So we come back Monday, our house is cleaner than we left it right. And we at that point, look at our walls. And we talked about what walls we should get rid of which ones were just popped up for a conversation to get on the same page. And which ones to stay up. Right. And often we rearrange walls to like a lot, it makes more sense to move this wall over there. And so we don't have enough we have, you know, been on the lake, we put a lot of windows in, which is great. And then we covered with post it notes. And now we can't see. So yeah, it's kind of funny.

This is a spending wall that we use. So money is a funny thing, right? Everybody wants to spend it every once more, right. And so, you know, I'm the dad and serve as a hey, can we get this? Can we get this? Can I speak at this conference? Can I buy this. So we created a simple wall and you come over and you if you want to buy something, you put it on here you have to do your analysis, or your proposal, we have a weekly spending cadence where everybody that wants to spend stands around, it's right next to our financial wall. These are our KPI KPIs or bank account or billing rate or accounts receivable, all the things that my finance person keeps an eye on all her dials, right. And then these are what we use beer mugs with beer, but these are indicators to our goals and whether we're filling the mug or not. And so but this is transparency, it's not when people come up and say, Hey, I'd love to buy a cool 3d printer and laser cut plasma machine for design studio and, and we've added $3,000. And I can say I can say no, we're gonna say okay, well, let's put this up with everybody else who wants their money. We have budgets, and we have goals. And you know, how are we looking with receivables? How are we looking with, you know, sales forecast and all these things? And then they understand that decision. It's not saying no, they're part of the decision making process with this is not a yes or no, right? Go ask Mom, go ask the next person and try to find budget for it. They understand why or we can or can't do things like oh, well, we chose to do this and we're going as a team, we're gonna choose to spend money on this instead of this. And this is why it ties back to this goal for our company. Right? It completely changes how you work. Any questions about that? Three steps in talking too fast. Yeah. Yep. Yeah.

Yep. So good question. The question was, what about distributed teams, right, large corporations, y'all can't be in the same spot with one big visual room. So one of the things when you manage gotta manage to the majority. So often, we'll put a lot of processing place or technology in place to handle that 10% 20% offset. So reality there is going to be a hub, right somewhere. And we say, well, we're going to, we're going to do what works for us the best. And then now since you're the minority, we're gonna have to figure out how to acquiesce and support you. But just because you're remote doesn't mean I'm put everything in a tool to make 20, you know, spend a lot of money for 80% of us. So 20% of us feel included, we have an honest conversation and say, Hey, you remote, how do we want to do this, we actually have a double robot, right that we can drive like a Segway with an iPad on it around the walls, it doesn't work real well for the clarity. But But bottom line is we have people remote, you have to have a communication plan period, right as a leader. So this is where you quarterback from what you communicate out, you can do your slide your slide shares, and all that and disseminate the information, there's no way you you don't need to share 100% of information. That's not the goal of this room, the goal was to get the leadership team on the same page, it might mean the leader has to fly in and walk those walls, it might mean that, hey, as a leader, I'm responsible and accountable for three walls. So I need to figure out a way to work pair with you to get your wall updated, I'm gonna have an administer, I'm gonna keep up with the same wall here, my take a picture and send it to an administrative person who update the wall on a weekly basis with the changes. So there's lots of ways you can do it. Again, a lot, we often were really good because we're analytical, we manage the exception. And it's like, just you know, you have to have the honest conversation. If you aren't at, you know, in the home office, there's no way you could ever have as much insight. And when I put it in a tour, don't put in the tool. Yeah, so it's, uh, you know, we do our company meetings. You know, I have 67 people on 27 on the boat, and they all can't fly in right for the meeting. So we do it, we do the best we can of pulling off the critical elements, and then running through a slide deck, right, we do a thing called extreme meeting, we take our whole company, every three or four months completely out of the client will go do something outdoors, and fun and rock, climb, whatever. And when we do that, we actually we really spend time walking the walls before we do that. So we make certain points. There's different communication plans for different levels. There's no easy solution. But yeah, it's hard, your mind can shift so fast. That's why the paper works. Right? The cost is cheap, and things are always changing. Good question. Any other questions? Okay. All right. So how do you make decisions fast, right? Or collaboratively? How many people have heard of fist to five? Awesome. Yes, that actually helps. So, yeah. So first of five, you know, often as humans, we can really belabor a decision because we want 100% buy in, right? So we're sitting there talking about whether we should do something. And you know, everybody's keep, we all keep talking, because I think you're 80% there, I think you're 90% there, but I want you to be 100%. So we spend a lot of time spinning cycles. Reality is we're all way over the majority that we should do this. So if we just do a quick vote. So we will, we will say if we're talking about something was Hey, 55, right? It's pretty simple. Five means Hey, I'm all for it. That means hell, no, I'm going to undermine it. Right? Threes, I'm kind of in the middle. I don't care either way, right. And then four. And so so we do these voting a lot just to get to make quick decisions. Because we know that if we're good leadership team, we're going to do it. And then we're going to learn from it. And then we can adapt. Right? So what's the word? If we fail, we learned something. So that's okay. And so we were doing this for a couple teams. And every morning after stand up, they were having fist to five, they just called fist the five meeting, Hey, I gotta make five decisions today. I feel like something I want to buy these chairs for the developers already, you know, these are my options. I'm going to pick this 155 Good. We're making an average of 1015 10 or 15 decisions and like 10 or 15 minutes, right? If it takes more than a minute for you guys to collectively say whether we should or not. Okay, now we should talk about it. So let's say we do a fist to five, right? And it's like Murphy's Law. Your name tags are backwards. But Beverly. Alright, thank you. So if we don't agree or summon batteries, like hell, no, I won't go. You know, what we'll see. Okay, well, we better talk about this. Let's have a meeting. And that's 5520. And let's apply six thinking hats. How many people have seen this? Good. Yeah. Edward de Bono. 1964. Right there 68 Or something crazy. So great book, but so often was okay. Wow, that didn't go so well. You know, Beverly was really against it. Trilene was a little it was a little bit, you know, if you want it to so we're going to have a six Nikki hat meeting about this topic, who wants to be in it? Right. And so that's it, you schedule a little meeting. And then we apply these hats. So the way it is the blue person with a blue hat, and you can buy cool hats and make this fun, right and wear the colored hats. But the problem is that you have to actually take yourself through these different states. So you say alright, I'm the facilitator. Let's put on the Red Hat. So the Red Hat, we're going to talk about this. We're talking about throwing a path to agility conference, right? And the Red Hat is okay, emotional. How do you feel about this? Right? You have to justify or explain it, but just tell me how you feel about it. Yeah, I think it's nice, you know, just just get your feelings on the table. Okay, now we're gonna take the red hat off. We're gonna put the yellow hat on. What's the best pod? We're all the positive aspects if we if we ran this conference, right? What are all the creative aspects? What are all the facts? Just the facts? Wow, there's going to be how many people are 700? Something like that? A lot. Anyways, lots of people here, it's marketing, blah, blah. So when you start getting us all at the table that important is is is not to be Blackhat everything the person, right, if everybody Oh, it was Blackhat, and this from the get go, we're forcing her to go through these different emotional states. And, and the facilitators job is like, as soon as you start black hat and sudden we're like, whoa, we aren't on the black hat yet. We're just talking about the facts. Right? Not all the things can be bad about this, but just the facts at this point. It's amazing how simple this works, and how easy it is, and, and how much how often it really, really works. I've seen like developers argue about frameworks for weeks, and like, hey, let's do six thinking hats on this framework, or is this framework and they come out of it, and, and the, the person who was perceived as Blackhat actually got their solution, because when they all looked at it, through all these different lenses, they actually all came to a different conclusion. And he came to it together. So that this is how we kind of resolve conflict. We talked through this, and a facilitator at the end of the day, at the end of this, we take another vote, right, and then we decide what we're going to do. So collaboration, eight, we used it to talk about autonomy and control earlier, right, who's responsible, accountable consulted forum, we also use it to make decisions. So let's say we're talking about throwing the super mega conference ramaa. Right. And what we do is we took post it notes, and we put them across the top right over here, we said, Okay, well, what are the epics? What's involved with throwing a conference? Well, we need to get a location, we need to get food and drink, we need advertising, we need some money, we need to get speakers and sessions, right, there's probably all these big elements. Because often we're really good at over committing, right? And it's like, I always do this conference. But wait, I'm consulting. And for me, you guys have to do all the hard work. I was I was 55. But that didn't mean I wanted to do anything. Right? I just wanted to sit back and watch and go to the happy hour afterwards. So that's what we do. We start putting our names we start signing up for the work. Right? So now we're looking at okay, do we have enough people that are responsible and accountable? Say there's a risk here? Right bills, really cares about food and drink? Probably can't do it himself. Right for the whole conference? Amy's over here, she just wants to inquire there's no interest in the food. So where are we in addition, maybe we don't do this, right? Because we don't have bad food. So it really helps you look at look at who was going to take responsibility, accountability. And then if you execute this conference, and you get done, and then you do your retrospective, right? And you talk about the improve, you'll learn something and say, Oh crap, we let we all voted. And we say yeah, Bill's got the food, he makes a great pig roast and yada, yada, right? And then we ran out of food, nothing worked, right? Well, I had a lot of respect and trust for Bill. But the next time we do a conference, I'm going to remember this. And I'm gonna have to jump up, if I didn't like the outcome, I'm gonna have to actually get involved and pair with Bill or work with Bill so that we can pull off the food to make it better last time, right. So again, really simple to do. We do it all the time. And you amazing how many things we don't do, because we took the time to do this little exercise. And we saw how we're just adding something like that we aren't, we don't have all the right passion around this to actually execute on or we don't have the right skills on our team to do this. We were thinking about opening a new office in the West, and we did this on the on the West Coast office. And we we learned, right, wow. Okay, how many people are willing to travel out west all the time and do this and that we kind of broke it down and, and we allow sounded fun to do. Right? We didn't have the passion or the ability to do it to execute on it, we'd have the right people on the team to cover all the bases to actually execute that. Okay, questions? Let me don't want timewise. Okay, this is the most complicated part of this is your backlog. So how do you guys manage your backlog today? As leaders, right? Or anybody personal backlog doesn't matter, right?

If we're going to truly create an eight, if you have an Agile team, all your works up on the wall, your cars, your product owners everything, you know, right? How do leaders do that? Right? Because your backlog is kind of in your self control. Right? You are the product owner in a sense of your domain. You can create work, you can delete work, you can create work for other people, right? And so it really becomes complicated. And it's it's way different than doing software projects. So this has been the hardest problem. Like I said, I don't even have this one solved, or partially, we have a partially solved but it's really really hard practice to do is to do contain this. So I'm gonna spend a good bit of time kind of showing you how we do it. And I hope some of you guys try it and then tell me how you can make it work better. So it's hard for me as a leader, it's really easy for me to walk in on President use my title, President CEO, so Hey, Mike, here's five things for you to do. Here's three things for you to do two things for you to do. That's really easy, right? I'm gonna get frustrated because Mike's got got a lot on his plate, but I often don't know what Mike is on my plate. So how do I know if what I asked him to do is more important than what he is? already doing? Right? It's a basic question is what we do when we build software, right? We put the highest value things first. But sometimes a high value thing first for us is just beating down our inbox. Right and going to meetings. Right, right. And that's the reality of how our ecosystem works. So we really have to work hard not to fight this big inbox war, and not to go to too many meetings, right? So this is how we do it. So this is how we break up the different types of backlog. So I have lots of meetings, I like, nice, I'm not corporate, so I don't have as many as the most corporate people here, right. But I have like, you know, two or three meetings a day, which that's two or three hours I made our day, that's almost gets to almost half my capacity. So how do I get my other work done? Right? When I have so many means to go to. I have my personal things, right, I'm still I still got wife, kids, dogs and stuff going on, that I have to deal with. And things are on my mind about before after work that I have to manage and track somewhere. And then we have projects that I'm involved in, right. So I signed up to run that conference ramaa, right, or whatever it is, or, or lead to the west office or something like that. And then I have, you know, my department, okay, so ultimately as a, as a presents EEOC facing lien dog, so I have some obligations there that I need to get out and do things. So in my role that that just required me. So first thing to do is get our backlog in the one system. Okay? Because just like a software project, what do you do, right? You create your backlog, you look at it, you group it, you create MVPs, you create product releases, and you actually organize your backlog. It's really hard to do it when your backlog is your texts on your phone, your email, your voicemails, your right, your project tracking systems, all this stuff, your backlog is not in one system is completely scattered. So how many people were familiar with getting things done? Most Yeah. So in other books, so that the notion of getting things done is you have to do something, and that means it's done, you defer it, which means I'm just deferring it to my personal backlog, right, my or my project backlog or you know, one of these backlogs I'm shoving it off to do later. Often, it's in my inbox, right, that's my reminder, I get to do something about that it's hanging around in my inbox, I need to delegate it, meaning I give it to somebody else. And that case, when I delegate it, sometimes I delegate it, and I delegate it on that on the collaboration, HRT and it's just a pure delegate. Right? Sometimes I'm a six, sometimes I'm a five, which means I want to be informed, right? So even though I delegated it to bury all you have your name tags around, okay, they've got a pic on rich. Alright, so rich, something I gave it to rich, but I also signed up, I kind of, I'm kind of like a five or six on this. So I know there's going to be some of my work to actually stay at a five or six, because the seven eyes give it to you walk away, but I have, but I might I know that we're gonna have to talk to me, I'm gonna have to give my insight and we have to learn about his work. Right? So that is a deferred backlog. Right? If I'm not a seven, then I'm involved, right? So there's some cost to me to actually keep an eye on that card that Rich's playing, right? So delegation is really easy to do. And we all often all over delegate, right? And that and that creates chaos. Because delegation without autonomy and control, just create, like I said, it creates work for me, I just never really get rid of it. I gave it to the six or five or four level, so I have to stay involved. And then there's delete, right? If there's noise delete. So this is kind of hard. We use a tool called Trello. How many people know about Trello? Yeah, pretty awesome little tool. So we create a personal Trello board. So there's John's board, there's Mike's board is Matt's board, we all have a board. It's all visible to everybody on our leadership team. Okay. We generate a list in Trello, called Inbox Zero backlog. We go into there we created you can go into Trello and say, Hey, generate an email list for inbox zero. And it gives you a nice URL, slap that into your contact list. Right now, when I go through my inbox, and I want to get my backlog there. All I do is forward all those emails to Trello. John Trello, John Trello Trello Mike Trello. Matt. Right. And everybody stood up. So we're, it's all popping in our inbox here. So all the new work, the incoming work is popping in there. It's not an email anymore. Right? Our goal is, and then we'll show you I'll show you exactly how you do this, I'll show you the details. Because again, my my inspiration do this is to also learn from you guys, if somebody can figure out a better way, it takes a lot of time to do this. I mean, we our goal was that by stand up every morning, at 830. We all have inbox zero. So I'll show you we have a whiteboard and our names across the top and Monday through Friday. And on the left, we actually look at the week, and we have little stars. And if you hit Inbox Zero, you put a star up, that means you've done your job. We've all agreed that we're all going to try to do the same personal time management stuff. Right, which is again, hard to do, because everybody struggles with the issue of personal management, right? But getting a team to say wow, we're all going to do it the same way. Right. Is it really challenging because your personal preference I like to keep lists I'd like to keep posting it. It's I keep it in tasks or you know, all these different apps you do get to say, Well, if we can't share our back clog, and we can't be completely transparent across ourselves and what we're doing, then we can't truly prioritize value in the right order, okay? Because I just don't know what's on your plate. And I need to know what's on your plate to be respectful for you. Okay, so this is my Trello board. That's me and one of my daughters holding it, that's a fishtail. If you're wondering what the heck that is. Get that so you can focus on the slide. So here's the Inbox Zero. Here's some personal things I'm working on. Here's, I own the boat with another guy, and we rent our companies. So this is when I meet with him. My next meeting, this is a backlog of things we need to talk about. This is product development. These are new ideas, we're working on lean dogs, so you got to keep moving forward. So I come with a lot of weird ideas. So I have to put them somewhere about what we want to build next to do this is how many emails do you get, hey, read this, learn this, here's a link to this. Right? Right, your continual improvement, your learning list is endless. So all I do is I said, Well, I'm gonna shove all those there. And next time, I'm driving on vacation, I'm gonna bang out my learning list, I'm gonna read 10 articles. So I'm grouping up all those learning things and getting them out. So that's an example. So those are the first five types of guides and every one of our boards are different. This is just how I chose to organize mine, yours will be different. Because how you think and how you categorize your work. Here's another one, I have backlog, I just have backlog that's like my bad bucket, because that means I didn't really manage it. Here's conferences, I'm going to, here's things I need to schedule, here's things are scheduled two weeks out. So this is another hard part. Since most of us have so many meetings, getting your meetings into Trello. Because I don't wanna I don't wanna look at my calendar, and then look at my inbox and try to balance like, what am I going to focus on today? How am I gonna do this? So what I do is I forward all my meetings to Trello. And I put a date on him and I have all kinds of different scheduling things to do. Because that's part of leadership is like, unfortunately, scheduling a lot of meetings. So, so here's, here's three meetings I need there are in a process being scheduled. So my, my administrative help is helping me schedule these things. So that they, they being the president CEO, they reach out to you first and you get all a lot of inquiries. And I forward it to her and copy her, send it to my Trello board, she works on scheduling it for me, right, and then then it pops over here. These are things that I've scheduled this week, there's things scheduled for next week, and anything greater than two weeks out, I just shove in here. Okay, and the reason I have these lists is because you're looking at a screen, he can only see down so far. So I found it like averaging, I tried to average no more than two or three meals a day at max. So I found that I in a week, right? I can handle like 10 or 15 and my scrolling thing. So that's why I have that. So you see the due dates on there. Right? I also have next today. So great. I have some meetings today, where I missed and canceled a meeting, right? So somebody canceled on me last minute or I got tied up and I missed the meeting. And I don't want to miss meeting. So if I miss it, I want to get that rescheduled right away because it's disrespectful. Or I have things I'm just waiting and watching. So these are all my delegation things that are that are not seven, right six, fives and fours. So I know that well, I have an obligation here whether or not maybe things have changed. And I need to go to rich and say I'm a seven now. Take me off your meetings quick copy me. I'll see it when I see it because I just got too much on my plate. Right. So I have to remember all those constraints and all those cross team commitments that I made to my to my peers. Questions so far?

I couldn't use my presentation view. So I can't see the time on the clock. All right. So the reason that I put due dates on here, because then I use the calendar view. And here you are, we're a path to agility 10am. Okay, I have to meet with Dave later, there's a dinner tonight, doing a class tomorrow here. And then on the way home, I have a conference call, I have to respond to that. And I gotta meet two other people while I'm here. Okay, so what I did is I took what's scheduled, and then I filled in my backlog for the day with all my other stuff, right? And so often when I'm doing the planning game, I get to zero and I look at my meetings, like crap, I gotta get out of some of these meetings. Because I had some real goals I need to get done this week, or, Hey, I'm going to speak at a conference and I need to clean up this talk, right to go speak at a conference. So that's how I use it the calendar view and getting all that to work. It takes a lot of work, right. But, you know, prior to grooming your backlog prior to your backlog should. So how does this feed to my peers? So again, we have a daily standup, we try to get to zero, we put it up there, we put our daily goals on the board. During the meeting. We don't say oh, what do you what did you do yesterday? We're going to do today? You know, we're all leaders, right? Hope we did good stuff yesterday. What I really want to do is adapt my plan. So this is our stand up. Well, these are leaders across the top Monday, Tuesday through Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or down the side. So the first thing we do is we all right, our meetings up there, right? Because that's it makes sure it's on our Trello board. And that now we can round out what we're going to do the rest of the day by pulling from our personal backlog, right? Or I say oh yeah, I'm watching rich. I need to go hang out with rich a little bit. I get an update on that project or whatever that is. Questions? Thoughts? Yeah? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And there's all kinds of plugins. So the question was, are there any API's for Trello? It's pretty robust. There's a couple plugins I tried to do for the county thing. And, and that works great until people change meetings. It doesn't have backward flow. So it was creating like, I'm like, Oh, is it? Am I with Astra on Tuesday or Thursday? Because I can't remember which way it changed. So so some of the API's are good, but they don't says it doesn't have backward data compatibility, you know, talking back.

Yep. Yeah, sure. Yeah, I haven't figured out this whole county thinking things if you got to figure it out. That's, I would love to learn how to do it. Because I've tried so many different ways to do it. And shorter stopping my developers to code something for us. Yeah, okay, good. There you go. He can help me do it. Good. Any other questions? Who's gonna try this? Oh, boy, it's hard. So if you do, please let me know how it's working for you. Because even across our leadership team here, I think really three of us are really hitting zero every day. Out of you know, that's not the complete list, or the more names in there are up here. Some people are really sticking to their personal time management ones. The other reason that I'm not a big tool fan, but the other reason your backlog is so big. And if you travel, you have to have it online. Right? Some people like that are on the boat all the time. They don't use Trello. Their their backlog, it's actually written up here, you can't see it, where they keep their backlog. It says whether it's on Trello, or it's on, if you don't travel, you just put it on the wall. Right. It's big, it's a lot of stuff. And they and sometimes they're put in spreadsheets or backlogs and putting stuff up there. But nonetheless, they choose not to use Trello. So

some of the posts devoted to trifold. Horrible things. Yeah.

Lots of tricky. I'll show you the tri folds here in a second. Yeah, so the goal of our stand up so one of the as a leader, right, you show up to your work job to do the best job you can do every day. No doubt about it, you shouldn't be on the leadership team, right? The challenge, the challenge is understanding what your peers are working on. And often I wake up and I'm getting shot. I'm like, okay, get my game on. What am I going to do today? And I come in and I get nothing Oh, crap, I forgot. Right? I didn't forgot we had to get that RFQ out, or we need this customers coming in or, or Jesus, you mean, you know, path agility is only three days out, you know, panic, right. And so, so that happens all the time. And especially in the services industry, we're always adapting. So the most important thing I can do for the day is say, hey, you know, wow, I really need help. Today, I'm throwing up the flag, I went to last responsible moment speaking in Columbus tomorrow. And I don't have any, any, I was hoping to work with our designers design this little card, I couldn't do it, who can take help me with this is one car to get this thing done? Right? A good team will adapt for each other, right and say, Hey, I don't want John to fail as conference when we hand out something. So that's a that happens all the time we adapt every day, you know, interviews, you name it. There's something always something that makes us adapt. So when I look at the people that are on my leadership team, I don't care if you're in finance, you're in legal, you're in HR, I care, are you doing the right thing for us every day, based on the highest value thing we can do that day, right. And we've had people switch three or four different roles that lead dog, right by sliding around. So which is another important thing, so let's say my finance person, you know, has a health issue or she's out, right, and I have two of them, but to say, the primary one with most of the knowledge about how we do things, she's out when our backlog is completely exposed? I can go and look at our Trello board say, Wow, what was what was she was listed on today? Like, what was her priorities? And what meanings did she have? And how can we support her as a team member? Right. So again, there's lots of you get a lot more value, when you expose what we're doing. It takes the mystery out of it for your teams, anybody leaned on to see my backlog? And if I'm not working on the right thing, they can call me out on it, right? And say, hey, you know, why are you working on this crazy Skylift idea and other other ideas I do in the community? When we actually really need your help over here. Right? And can you support us? So ultimately, we're trying to create T shaped people, right? People that have this deep experience, we're willing to go broad, right? And we can shift and adapt and pivot when we need to. This is no different than we want on our our delivery teams. Okay, squads and boards. How many people are familiar with Spotify? Awesome. I mean, how about Spotify is engineering culture. Okay, cool. Write that down. That's a must watch video, Henrik neighbors, a good friend, very brilliant coach. Leading the agile movement, Spotify, they have a lot of great online videos. So we were I watched this video and that's it's one of those drawing videos right there. Pretty cool to watch anyways, and he does his talk and the story paints itself out and talks about how they actually build software. Well, I didn't get that out of the video, what I got was a new vocabulary for us to adopt. I didn't like that notion of saying, Wow, okay, you're in charge of business development. So these two people report to you, right? It just didn't feel right. We weren't trying to do that. Well, we want to do is create an organization where we form squads, or tribes, right? But let's stick with Sturm squads, squads, and we focus on a problem and we solve it together, right? And then we squat on the next problem, we squat and that I don't want all these hierarchy, right? I want to, I want people to apply their knowledge to the best they can. So we'll do the collaboration aid on that squad board will say, Okay, now we need to solve this problem. How are we going to do it? And so what's the radio, just Google Spotify culture, and you'll find it. There's 215 minute videos. There's lots of other great videos by Spotify, and Henrik out there too, to watch. But it's a quick learn. And so when we did it, lean dog, we said, Wow, we liked this vocabulary. So we went over to the wall that we have, which I didn't put a picture in which we have a cadence wall, and she has all the meanings we have at Lane dog. Why we have in which the late did it honors? So is that for customer delight people to late business the late right, and but we also have our Lean dog vocabulary. So we have, this is how we work. These are systems policies, if you will, we use Vista five, we use collaboration eight, right? We use the word tribe to mean this, we use squads to mean this, right? So we actually have defined our vocabulary. So anybody new comes into my culture, right? They can understand that we've all agreed to this. And they need to understand, this is how this this society has agreed to function. This is what meetings we have, this is our responsible accountability. And these are the things we do. So we adopted some of that. This is a little bit deeper look at tribes and chapters and squads. But right now, we're primarily on our leadership team using the squad term. And what we've done is we create squad boards. Okay, so we don't have enough walls, right. But we have a hell a lot of tri folds. Okay. And a lot of them. And so here, this is one this one's for, I think, cut. What is it? Yeah, it's training in the training squad. So we kind of have here's our, across the top autonomy control, right, responsible, accountable. So where are we sign up? So? And then we have our long term mission? Like, what's our goal with training with our product strategy? How are we going to measure it? When we do a retrospective? What are improvement ideas for around training? And then we have all these goals we came up with the goals are ATDD was standardized. We're going to embed a C class with James grunting I can't wait that one is anyways, we have four goals for epics that we did do. So we decompose those into small backlogs. And we create a really small column on wars. The reason we use tri folds is these go to meetings with us. Right? We carry these things around, and we say, well, we're gonna have, we're gonna have we're having a training squad meeting. So we just grabbed the board, we go in there, we open it up, we talked about it, we do a retrospective, we move around, we sign up for work, we sign up for work, we take that work, we put it on our Trello board. Okay, so it's back in our backlog. Okay, so I signed up to be a three on this training thing. That means I better have been signed up for some work. So what whatever cards, my name are on, I'm putting on my personal board. We don't have a training board. We all have personal boards. Okay, we could you know, we could have one, but we don't in this case. Make sense? Okay, thanks. We have lots of boards, stacks of them. There's like 30 right there, probably. But they're all over the place. And so we have a little bit and we a little post it notes, we can find the boards quickly. And typically, if you own the boards, there's they're close to wherever you're hanging out for the day. But when often we're tripping over, so they're just, there's a lot of them. And then plus part of the cleanup on Friday is which boards aren't we using? Get rid of them? Right? Let's get rid of the waste the clutter. All right. Okay, step seven ceremonies and cadence. So we have a daily standup, we have bi weekly sprints. So we meet and we go over at a high level, we do retrospectives. And then I do one on ones with everybody just to understand prioritization at the highest level, because my job is kind of see the whole, but it's one thing to do that. But we still have to have a roll up picture, right? We can't have all these stand ups and Trello boards, it's just too much. So I talked about the standup already. So we have epic prioritization. So this is an example. It's, this is right now it's a spreadsheet because Google Docs and we travel, and I go out and meet with people and I talk about the plan. But we have all of our functions down the left side, you know, these are the extra categories I didn't show you before. Who the who the the primary responsible person is whose This is the person who's scheduling the squad meetings. Right and working quarterback in it, right? So there, there might be more people responsible, but we didn't put them all on here, because there, it's changing. And we didn't want to change the sheet. We're like, Okay, well, just as long as the primary hasn't changed, we have to update to see where they keep their backlog isn't on a board is on a wall. What goals are they completed? What are the next three and then we kind of lay out the cards this only shows the dollar ones, but this is also how we do budget Deneen. So we're speaking it. Next week at Fort Lauderdale in South Florida conference, right? We're given out 400 books of our agile discussion guide, eight bucks apiece. So I had to go through and say, you know, I got $3,200 that I want to spend to execute this card on this on that training board, or that marketing board, and we put it out here, and then we grow up the decisions. So when we do the spending wall meeting, we can also look at the epic level, because a lot of the spending was just little stuff. Sometimes the sometimes people forget to put on the spending wall. So this is just, you know, it's a cash business. So we got to keep an eye on it, make sure that we're we're doing the right spend for the right outcomes. Alright, so that was it. That's what we do. It's a continual work in progress. And how much time we have left and so that's the boat before we renovate it. So it was a restaurant called hornblower's had no toys, no boat docks, we added a building. This is a US cod World War Two submarine that's right next to us. And so questions? Yes. I'll give you Yep, we're getting a copy of a book. You can you can get it online as well. We have iPad version we have videos. We you can subscribe to it. Some companies have chosen to adopt our book is there like PMO standard like we you guys are always adding and doing it. So why? Why should we write up our own just send us as you discover better ways software, toss it in there. We also have an app. So this Lean dog app has collaboration, eight fists to five t shirt sizes for estimation and planning six thinking hats. The reason we created an app is I can't remember all that stuff either. Right? So we're thinking, what's that blue hat? Oh, okay. So it's a it's a free app. And it just gets you. It has this for reference. And so if you have somebody new and say, Hey, we're gonna go through this, this process, it's just a quick reference guide is nothing, nothing fancy. And on our site, you can a lot of other stuff. Other questions? Yep.

Explained collaboration eight again. Okay, that's fine. Are we good with that? Or any other questions? I can do that last? Any other burning questions? Okay, let's do that.

No idea where that was. There we go. Okay. So the idea here is that you're talking about how much autonomy control you want for an outcome for a piece of work. So you're signing up saying why I really, I really feel passionate about this. And I really want to tell you what I want to do, it has to be this way. And that's, that's how passionate I am about carrying out that work. I want to make sure it's done right. And I want to, I want to do it. First, I consider this to be my responsibility. But I want to get buy in from others, I hear you, I really want to, I'm passionate about it. But I'm really wanting to like to talk to everybody on my team about it, and get behind it. Because sometimes, if you're one, you don't need any help. Like, oh, you can you've done this before, you just want to knock it out of the park, cool. Knock it out of the park, again, I don't need need support. Three is kind of what I really want to consult. So you guys are over here, and you're really passionate about it. You know, I want to I kind of want to be up in this responsibility, because I'm not as passionate about as you guys like, I don't have really strong opinions, but I definitely want to consult give you my input. And I want to agree with you on what we do. Okay? For is I want to pair with you, right? We mutually disagree. It's 5050. Let's figure this out. And let's get this done. And we're both equally responsible and accountable. Right? Five is okay, I just want to give you insight, but then you make your own decision. So I'll tell you everything I know about that. And then you decide what you want to do. Okay. And if you don't take my input, you don't take my input. Right, I chose not to be responsible. Right? You did. So you're gonna be accountable because you're responsible. Right, I'm consulting and informing you, that's all I'm doing. And that's kind of what the advisors and then the inquiries, you know, I trust you to do the work, but I want to understand so I can support you. Right. So same thing. You know, hey, you know, I asked Alistair to do he said he'd take the food and then we had we had beans and rice and closed conference. That was a bad idea. And next time, I'm like, Well, I'm gonna I'm gonna maybe take more responsibility with Alastair next time. And I'm gonna jump over and help him because I didn't like the outcome. I can't say, hey, Alistair, that was horrible. You're horrible person, because you chose me in the right. I chose not to have an input. Right? So I can't it's not fair for me to judge him when I chose not to have any responsibility. And he was willing to take that on okay. And then delegates like, Yeah, whenever whenever we eat, we eat right now it'll happen. I don't want to know about it. I don't want to see the menu. I don't wanna be copied on the emails. I don't want to be in the meetings. Right? So you'll hear us sometimes didn't run Lena. We're talking we'll talk about something like okay, where are you at? Now? You four. Right. Are you seven? Like because or You know, Jesus, you were a seven. And now you're forced to here's using the numbers, right? Because it's pretty easy. Remember force pairing, right? It's in the middle. And so it's pretty easy system to remember. So. So that's how we use it. I haven't heard us use the word Joker too much, because it hasn't been an issue. And most people aren't good at that. It's easier just to say response. Courage, communication and respect. Can we talk about this? Yes. Yeah, number, do you really need seven? Do you really use all sudden, we have been just because it was an easy formula to remember. I don't know we use all the numbers all the time. Right. I agree with you. racy was for right, responsible counsel consultant for and it was there was no middle pair. And we thought, okay, well, let's pick four. Yeah, yeah. Could be three, flip me off right there with Pfizer, Pfizer? Oh, good. Yeah, so it could be five, I don't care what the pattern is. Right? If I worked for you use five? Yeah. Yeah, you're gonna had seven, and we changed the vocabulary changed the way we used it. And so in respect to that, we didn't want to like, Oh, we're gonna blow it up and go to five, right? It just, it really didn't matter to us end of the day, we knew four was in the middle. And we knew there were seven. Well, or you could have fours, right? Just I mean, as long as you have people that are responsible and accountable, right, sometimes things are forced, right, all fours, you know, and there's, and because we all feel that same passion about it. And we all want to work on at the same level and do it. And so it really is, it's more about, it's just like anything, it's the conversation, this creates the right setting to have the right conversation. Economy control is hard. It's really hard to do, because it changes. You know, and I changed, you know, I, you know, we all change on a daily basis, like, sometimes I really want to be involved, and then something out, now I'm overwhelmed. I just can't be involved. And so, you know, we had a situation would come to this conference, I was at the boat late last night. And we didn't have any supplies packed in the car, right. And three, four or five of us are coming down. And, and so we didn't, we didn't do a responsibility, hey, we're going to this conference, we need to print some marketing material, let's break down the work for that. We didn't, we didn't take time to actually talk about that. So we failed, we didn't fail. We almost felt that last minute. We're like, Oh, crap, we gotta bring 100 books down for our class tomorrow, we got to know who's going to hand out the print. And Greg had to leave here and go to a meeting. And, you know, we just we didn't actually perform as a squad. Say, we're gonna go to Columbus and take a day, two days away from the office. How are we going to find success? And who's going to do what aspects of it? Yeah, so we had nobodies that week. Since we didn't do that. Getting the marketing materials down here. Was there was nobody responsible, accountable for that. retrospect after this will be well, why didn't we have a quick squad meeting, we are sending a squad of five people down to Columbus. That's a high cost.

Good to hear, nice to get positive feedback. Yes. So just another

kind of tripping over what we have all the responsibilities work, and then the directors in the eye and together, wherever they feel. Sure. Things like hiring process. Like that. So we use

sounds good here. So they're, they're still using it to fuse. So it's working for them. It's been a while now to say so like, even if you go the fuse, like a lot of those walls aren't there anymore. They serve their purpose, they die, they got us on the same page. It's often the your hardest problems will be on your walls and become the lead dog, you'll see our customers and matching our people up. That's our hardest problem, right? Making sure we can have business light and people delight and matching that up with the culture. So we have more walls about that than anything, because the hardest thing we do every day, is make those two things work. And, and so I'm glad to hear your your, your this is working for you. Any other questions? Yes, this slide deck will be available. It will be we'll have it available on our Lyndoch SlideShare off our site, but I'm sure the conference will because they're doing audio video and and there is a QR code by the way on the back of your card. And that's for feedback. I haven't checked it out myself, but this little thing on the back of your card. That's for feedback. So but I think every path agility conference has made the slides available right now so people speak so yeah. Go our website. Yeah, thank you. Okay. Any other questions? Yes. What do you do with something is already done in archives. What do you do to keep apart? We don't care we just throw away. I mean, at the epic level, I care so that spreadsheet That's because reality is at the end of the year, we're all switching roles. And anywhere that's at that spreadsheet, that's why I have a Done column. It's got to be further right.

There, pass it over here. Thank you. Okay. So that's why this goal is completed. That's just says, Oh, wow, can we achieve this cart? We complete it. That's that's the way we earn respect across people, because it's really easy to forget what your peers have done, right? Oh, that's right, we launched our agile discussion guide, 3.0 3.2. And we did this and we did that. So we have to celebrate our successes. And so we take these goals to leadership level, and we have our company meeting. That's what we share. We also have on every board a retrospective on every board. So we also have a retrospective wall. And so we also roll up our retrospective. And so at our company meeting, we pull these things and we use that for the next level of communication out. Because most people don't know what we do what we can complete. Right? If things were just spinning wheels up there, and we aren't really getting stuff done. We're just defending everything. Good question. Any other questions? All right, thank you all for coming.
