So today we're here to talk about agile UX. Wagner having to study for the past couple years and trying to practice. We did a lot of practicing with Jeff Patton, Salt Lake City. And I just want to help us learn more about UX, dog or both, or backgrounds or software development. So we were talking about us on one ad Now, the solution is that the interactive portion is going to be one of your three working practices with customers and having a successful.

So UX, formal definition that I found that Wikipedia, so it must be correct, right? Is the way that person feels about using a product system or service. And there are a number of influences that go into UX, including systems thinking, engineering, psychology, obviously. And we looked at us with a number of practices that that many of us are already familiar with. We've got user research, which a lot, a lot of us know is like personas. Sorry, officer user modeling. UI design, we look at UI, we find his high fidelity prototypes, right. And these days we do when we do an either prototype, craft, part of the conversation comes in here, things you need to keep in mind, we're developing prototypes, especially high fidelity, your last three that we'll look at everything from contrast to repetition, to the alignment of the elements, to actually the proximity, the elements to one another, right, where's I go, how's it drawing cetera. But it turns out that you can actually keep most of these things in mind, even when you're doing low fidelity prototypes contrasting. But reputational and complexity also come into play, even as you get into more agile practices, and test task analysis which we have mapped to use cases.

Okay, so we're at an adult conference, so sure, about the race to but he says that set of values and principles is what really causes UX and agile that people think about add value Mascaro. Think about the developers QA now, how did we actually get into the hole? So we started to use the values, we find that the most people are structured like this, they're pretty linear, right? They're centered around the whole team, the product owner and partners working with us to be able to development Yes, different every studio typically has in between person, some customer us is working with the business, some customers develop, both to relate various, what really changes whenever I had the opportunity to play here is that we really encourage whole teams when we're standing teams, that's awfully easy. In Vegas, for various reasons. There are several challenges. The first was back to this value of the manifesto, right. Working software, Congress, the documentation, a lot of us practices, high fidelity prototypes, good documentation upfront, right. So right away, you happy to hear so most often I start adopting more lightweight things like low fidelity prototypes. As developer, most people are frustrated when your team comes up with some really sexy and then you can't really, because the technologies that are really challenges that notion. The other thing that is county is how you respond to change resulting in. A lot of times, if you start looking at your whole process, it's hard to fit your whole process into a two week window. If you're doing a lot of us a lot of user experience work. Looking at two weeks, right, right now story parts. It doesn't consider some of the progressive elaboration that you have to work in Am I going up front is a rich user experience when they get there. So our suggestion overcome that online. So the cool thing about Kanban has Hold on a topic to celebrate, is it actually you focused on seeing the whole process, she actually looked at all the states from the early stages of initial progressive elaboration all the way to delivery to production, so it doesn't account for just two weeks. And more importantly, what I really think about combine is allows me to do it lets me establish metrics. So I can measure how long cars are staying in different states and use that data to justify perhaps adding more USF. This is the other towns right. This is the most organizations we come across, don't have enough emphasis on UX. You're just not enough of their facility specialists. There's a handful of them. It's hard to find good ones, right? And so because of that, you said Alright, well how the heck am I gonna put it Yes, person, I became better yeah, how am I gonna go to USD one every game because you're really comparing learning, getting feedback about your skills, you need at least two people in every role on every team. Okay? That's contrary to Scrum, we believe in larger teams, with a squad with 20 people on the team. So we have these two people in every role. Add us here, now your team size around maybe 14 to 22. So typically, that this is the big problem is that we just don't find out you have to get your strategy this is they want to keep them in a specialized role. And everybody fights for, right. And that just that doesn't support the whole team mindset. So this car here, got you the case? What is the advertiser USC, your company? So it really depends on what kind of software solutions you're building? Right? If you're building a solution that's completely used for internal folks, and you're forced to use it? Well, you don't care about us, right? Now, the phone's gonna ring as a call center application, they have to go through screens when we made a good design or not. So we are gonna put us people on this, we're gonna make it look great. This is just our people, right? We got to think SBS, right? Everybody should be productive, not just your customers, and they should feel good about the software that you're talking. But boy, you know, we put a face to try to assess the company. Right away, we can tell you and your staff and US people at all. Okay, if you have an application that's easy to change. So, yeah, the theory I can not like my email provider and so on. Right? You have a bad experience on Google search, you know, Yahoo search or go to, right, so it's really easy for me to change product solutions, those companies care more about us, okay, because the risk is high if they have a bad experience, so off to go somewhere else. So this is one way of thinking about us and your organization and understanding of what you have to pay this.

We're gonna talk about three merging agile UX practices that we're actually seeing in the industry as as we're as we're bringing the UX teams and delivery teams together, what are the things that are happening, right, and we'll go through each one of these in a little bit more detail. But the first one is that we see quite often as user story mapping and story mapping. And that is, is common, but we're seeing some new aspects to that. The way that we're actually working through it, especially with UX involved, right. So this really becomes kind of the initial stages, progressive elaboration, doing some really lightweight story maps. And then we're seeing you know, what influences Lean Startup, what we've been kind of referring to as test versus design, where you're doing really lightweight, testing, again, our interactive session soon will actually go through an exercise where you guys are actively participating in these things. And then finally, something that we're seeing that's really cool, is flash builds. And this is really is real time design, delivery, where on the spot at the need with the customer, perhaps in the store, or in the field software is being built and delivered, right there. So no design upfront No, right? It's just happening in real time. So first one, you've just started mapping, right. And again, most folks, I'm sure, some flavor of story mapping. But what we're gonna go through today's exercise, where what this really means is we're describing the story and really kind of a lightweight overview. Very quickly looking at how does the user interact with this are what are the demands? What are the needs? Here to go back and take a look at the flow of the work and understand where are the pain points for users? What's what is the stuff that affects them the most. And that would be basically highest value for us to solve for them. Make sure keeping a focus on customer value, and then actually converge on solutions. So we're gonna we're gonna actually use some more of the lean startup approaches to actually test hypotheses and figure out what's the right solution for this problem.

So it's a three step process Doc is explaining right capture the story, we're gonna talk about one of the painful or wasteful points in user experience. And then we're gonna prioritize and swarm on what kind of person So has anybody heard and we're going to be communicating connected consumer. Okay, so this is like I said, Gen X, Gen Y, right? This is not a focus, right? This is people like you guys, you probably have a laptop. I always have technology fingertips. You're using it all the time. You every time you make a buying decision, you might say, Okay, well, hey, check this out. Now, give me the Arizona review. Let me figure out if this iphone four Siri thing is even worth it. I'm gonna leverage my social networks, get feedback from them, right. But I always tend to check online and I leverage these mobile devices as much as I can. Almost every every kid being born today is going to be fitness persona. Almost Every company today has to start thinking about this because if you're communicating connected with your customers, right, they're gonna they're like, likely. So how many people can have robot here? Right? Yeah, sure. So. So it's really important that this this generation lead generation, this this persona that I just consider. So for today's exercises, you guys are gonna be yourselves, I guess, since you're all CCCS. Excellent. So, our scenario here, we're gonna talk about story rides. You didn't interview with Doc? And I say, No, tell me how you actually do your laundry. Get and I've never done it his way. He's crazy. But that was the whole value the exercises? Yes, this process, you're doing laundry, I have mine. So we started to take the handle person. So I'll just tell you how to decline. Right? He started describing his process, right? So I

mean, our house is full bowl bowl for us, right and the meat we recognize the need to do a load right? Something gets out of pants or clean underwear, whatever might be the right side actually do a load of laundry. So then there's there's different stations around the house, people throw the dirty laundry. So to grab a basket, walk around, get, you know, whatever clothes are dirty. And then actually carry those down stairs to laundry room. So it's kind of a pain in the ass. But but, you know, take those downstairs, go ahead and load up the washer. You know, turn the washer. It's pretty self explanatory, right? So now I gotta go do something for a while. Right? We're pretty close to actually like get done. Wait for the buzzer. Right remember to check Washington recycle empty the Washington to drive sharp the dryer, fold clothes. And I actually leave in there until people actually come get him. It's kind of a high level, right? So especially walk through like, Okay, here's, here's how I actually, you know, to do laundry in my house. But then their job is to walk it with me a little more detail. Right? So, you know, I will so the adults need something and the kids need something, you know, or and I have to determine it's like dark meetings or lights because I sent her an out session restraint practices as well. We still separate our laundry into dark mediums and lice. Like what the hell do is throw man who cares? Right, and then you know, I got, do I get to dry or not. And, you know, just make sure the washer settings are correct as much after the detail says I have to go through in order to get the load of laundry done. But so after going through this kind of interview process, really lightweight map of you know how I do laundry. Right.

Okay, so now we're gonna do it coming in here. Yeah. I'm excited. We have six or seven stations. 123456. stations up the back. Yeah. So why don't you get yourself organized and have like six or eight people, maybe? Table per group?

Any place that there's a piece of piece or two paper on the wall? And there should be panglong supposed to those?

Yeah, so this is your scenario, okay, you guys are CCCS we have so many of your team to be that CCC to the person you're gonna interview. And like I say, This scenario is going to be just shut them off. Just reopen the gaps or you log in what happens? I want you to describe your shopping experience. The time you go through the checkout, you walk back out the door. And once you interview one person, your key afternoon person knows that story. You don't have any questions about that.

So what are you going to ask you to do and don't go overboard with this. I've watched teams go forward. This is kind of asking the question so they said Well walk into the store double and and then don't you talk to the service person. Right? Have them tell you what the actual story is. Right. So I'm looking for a little more actually

I already know what I'm gonna buy when I go into

Do you always hear the same story?

No. I usually go

to the store then go to Amazon. Yes. Okay. Yeah.

How would you find that? No questions. We have two solutions for that.

Have I learned from Stefan already? No. Okay, so I'm enquired by the so should I say I am looking for an article of clothing they then asked me preference of type or material and I respond appropriately they then direct me to worse when you appropriate sizes of my request and asked if I would like to try something on it again I didn't say that so he started chain and

then you go to the sales rack

that was very good. Yeah. Okay, good.

Yeah, so what do you want me to write down? Out of all that this is an answer.

But what did you ask that he said yes to

communication words that you look for particular brands? Not just anything that's on sale? So a general question would be how do you choose what you want you're interested in? Yeah. If that's true

then I guess it's a moot point. Just items on sale is the end of that that training before

you go to the store? No. So you don't have pictures like you do any research before you? Store? You said you go to Amazon sometimes

it's usually on demand clothing shopping?

Yes. I wouldn't make sure you get to you can say here that so at this point, she's already in this little cemetery picnic. So you really want to ask about these points are going to flow in here. Like for me, I walk in the store and we're supposed to just like perfumes, for example. So there's things that turn your attorney around. Right? We'll hear about that. I'm just wondering are we going over whether or not you're familiar.

Looking at your op ed styles,

sometimes I want to work with

the phrase right

so is Anna Rondo here? Should we do like a separate posted for styles or colors? Or Is

America I guess, okay, yeah, you guys go if you want to sit down again. So, you really got to start your story, right? You listen, you just had to tell their story. And you decompose the car so you can learn more and understand the experience? Break it down. Okay, now we're going to move on so we were talking about pain points, right? So our job is typically to apply technology right to improve things. So will we want to know how this experience where everything is painful for you. Okay, and you know, laundry example here so,

right so So in that example, this is the main points first of all was actually determining one three do a load or not, sometimes it's too damn late and then and then figuring out what exactly we need to get together right. So that was my first pain point. Really, the second one was around loading the washer. Just there's a lot of steps there that can be washed is really complicated, right? Actually, you know turning down thing is actually going to push 1000 objects ever again right that was that's difficult and then really waiting to hear that buzzer remember to check that the load was actually does sitting there you know, I've already got three loads done in an afternoon and I forget and I'm kind of I'm kind of dork right

okay, there we go. Right.

So whenever relevant each of these pain points and we're thinking about the communicating connected consumer you know, we looking at what's what's what's the most made what's the most critical to that or less area that we could help them with the most so already that

was waste? Yeah. What's the most wasteful part of this whole process? Yeah.

And for me, frankly, it's it's that exact wherever you check the washer, so the waiting around, right, that's where the most waste happens. I can lose an hour easily I get I get into a Doctor Who and just leaving this, right.

Okay, this is a quick exercise for you guys. So now, I want you to go back to your process flow and ask the same questions. What was the most painful process? What part of this part did you hate the most out of that? Okay, and or which part can we have? It's really wasteful for you really a lot of time or efficiency or you didn't get your bot through your mind. Just five minutes to do that there. Isn't he's been good over laying around. He's a big developer, you can talk to one of the pain points. Or even just circle some workers.

You got them all told you got a time go ahead and read them. So five minutes for this. Yeah.

So the top one, two or three pain points how that process

I'm familiar and I have a search for things that takes a long time to get

you have to find somebody else check out can be especially do you want to try that? So a subsection of the checkout processes not enjoyable? Would you highlight the entire process or just

skip all that probably is the highest level but but will seek to understand exactly what part and experience but we're gonna do next is we're gonna say, Okay, now how can we apply? Can we apply technology at that? Knowing that you're pursuing a type of CCC? So how can I leverage mobile technology or something or some way to the depth personal reach for that facility? and leverage it? Right? Yeah, but usually at the top, okay.

Okay, so now what we've done is we've we'll go where this is an example of a document. Okay. So we went through, I think I described my buying experience. And for me, the biggest pain point was that door lock, right. And I could talk to somebody that probably didn't want to talk to him, right and beg them to open up the door because they don't trust me. Right. So that really annoys me. And it really is wasteful, because I'm almost have to just take myself to return policy that I'm going to have to go through that untrustable process. So the other point here was right. Sizing thing, right, you get the wrong size. And then you go to you open and sock and yeah, so that was my pool points. Like me about that?

Find? So is this similar to what you guys came up with?

With this solution, this issue is there. Right? Yeah, sorry. So that just shows you how many different personas and different people have different buys through the gap. Okay, so you can make your own good. Alright. So see if you get the point here, all right. So when you describe the story, lightweight tools, you have some good dialogue, the pain points, you focus on customer value to eat. Everybody here came up with different value points, right? They weren't all I doubt, maybe one or two or even the same. I know because I walked around, listen to you guys. But the whole point is, right. There's a lot of different thought process. Just as simple as you have your damn clothes going along and check it out. Okay, the next step is really getting it. Okay, now we have a pain point. What are we going to do? We need to figure out how are we for solutions? We are a technologist. Can we apply technology? Right to somebody who's the CCC, which you guys, like your CCCS have lots of different generations, velocity Hawkman apply technology. So now we're gonna do the second thing that we're seeing an emerging was the lean startup.

Yeah, I don't think there's any additional hands on. There

will be a little bit there will be a little bit but Yeah.

That'd be fine. Right. So how many folks you're ready. Okay, all right. Cool. How many folks here are familiar with the concepts in the startup?

So, so he started up right was written by Eric Ries, Eric Ries, actually is is I'm not sure what it was. I think he is a software developer. And what Eric discovered through trial and error in his life was that the things that he was applying towards software development, also applied towards starting a business and a Watching a concept, right and eventually lead actual into an entire approach, Eric, but only miss that none of the stuff that he talks about in his book is really new or unique is just, I use them out there. He's just kind of coalesced into one volume and say, this stuff worked for me. And I think it worked for you. We've had we find it very practical. And we actually apply it quite a bit as well. And the basic, the basic fundamentals are build, measure, learn. And I'm sure that sounds pretty familiar to most nationalists right. Now, it goes backwards. But this is what this is what we do, right? So fundamental concepts, you form a hypothesis. So you've got some idea, right? That some some fundamental concept you believe is valid, it might be that you are looking for a new online chat experience. I don't know if that's true or not. But that's your hypothesis. So they look at what's the latest possible way that I could validate that and get feedback right away? Right? What's what's the least expensive way to do a fact? Do I even need to build software to the valley? And if I don't need to, I probably shouldn't, right? I mean, the building software costs money. If I can figure this out for for a cheaper way, I should do that, save myself some time, save themselves some money, make sure you're actually measuring your results. So he looks at and how can you quantify you know, the information is coming in to help actually validate or invalidate your hypothesis, and then actually iterate towards what he what he refers to as a minimum viable product. So what you're doing is, you throw hypothesis, you measure information, that proves that your hypothesis was correct or incorrect, you make adjustments based on information, try another test, you just iterate your way towards a actual product that consumers are telling you being interested in.

Okay, so we have this word test verse design, you have to have an accurate number would be it. So maybe your last scenario shocking. Okay, obviously, as you see, instead of the hypothesis was, would I be willing actually touched something to door party dissolving? Technology in some fashion to actually get that? Okay, so this is for a half a good color to? What's the simplest way you

have somebody that you've texted to who then does the login? And see if people text so that we don't write software? You just test it right then and there with somebody's?

Text? By running there? So I don't know if there's only one good answer that

there's there's one that exactly matches, there's one

exactly matches happens to be balls. You get to pick your hat here. Yes, this will be right, we just put a poster on the door. We'll show you a video later of companies that do stuff like this. And they put a big sign up like innovation in progress or, you know, soft, softly in progress. People are freaked out by factors. Most of those they're a little bit more open to the fact that she said, There you go. And he said, I'm gonna put that up, and I'm gonna just watch how many people actually are going to have to pick up their phone and start texting attacks it. Okay, we're gonna go rope. Okay, Dad, listen, hey, they said, We're people who have to be willing to do that. Okay. Now, if they are willing to do that, right, there's a crazy business value there to the extracted. One, the trust factor goes away, Hey, I've actually even given you my personal information. I think it has a sales clerk can tell, hey, somebody just went into that room. Right? If they do still some nice, you have their phone number now. Okay, so there's the business value of this customer by there's, you know, customer service, there's all kinds of different things that you can get out of that. So often your point like why we solve that pain point. Now we want to do business value for the customer, we can actually communicate to that consumer will give you data, they're going to engage with you. So you have more data than if they didn't engage with you. Right? And you can learn from that data. So that's, that's an important example as make sure that because now you have to build that and now you have to say okay, is it worth it? Is it customer value that we should actually pay someone to actually make that happen for real? Okay, and then get that project Okay, so

hey, Like, right in our scenario was size, right? So I got close to the amount of change, I put them on, and they just is equal size. Right? And it's pain, I actually got to take the head off, I record my clothes back on the handle where I've got to now talk to salesperson. Right? So what can you do guys now? How would you solve the wrong size problem? Right? What? What's a hypothesis that you could come up with? And how would you test that? Just to help solve this wrong size problem.

Back to your little area there in reverse for a few minutes. Remember, you're a CCC? How can you apply technology? mobile technologies, technologies? And how can you help with that? Size? up specific. It has to match with the other cells. Remember what symptom the cheaper thing you can do? Because there's so don't architect paper in this?

Video Wait a minute. Right. Right. Yes. But they do have their Oh, yeah, they will. Depending on numbers. Yeah, I mean,

there's only factory technology

or a light switch. Or you can like, your wife whatever size they want the bigger size that one they have interface.

A little bit of a troll, because then you still have to interact with someone. You might not have to address. The door. Maybe that's like, that would be

a sign you hang please bring?

Yeah, maybe.

All right. So

everybody got it done. Okay, you guys go back to your seats, because we don't have any more interactions.

So a couple of years looking for maybe problem teams who wants to share what their solution was? The

best solution? Yeah. Yes, the microphone.

Our solution was to have a sign in there to say text for assistance to get new sizes. And then you could have the source system come in as um, get all the information as opposed to the person who's trying on clothes to have to convey all the information through technology, and then the sorts of shape could go grab the clothes and bring them back. And our test for that was the number of checking the number of people who did that, versus the number of people who went into the end to try stuff on rejected something and then grab something of that same style, have a different size to bring back in

a solution or grab all these animal panalytical people?

Sure, we were thinking that we would also have a sign or people to Text Only this time, they would text a picture of our code, along with some message saying what they want different about it maybe size 34 or in blue, something some delta from that markups. Then, essentially, you could scan the barcode, figure it out, bring it over.

There's no winner, but your closest solutions. We have another one. All right. Well, yeah. So we decided that the basic solution would be just the same, to say yes, legalize, give any assistance. Okay, all right. So

our hypothesis was similar for coders, right. All right. What could we get a somebody to scan the barcode right here you similar technology. So maybe we can put an eye. Hang on, I've had them all we know they're comfortable with iPads and tablets. And maybe they can just say bigger, smaller. So you have the code, or one of the people if you put it up there and they scan it, and if you Oh, it checks inventory systems that we don't have a large relationship with your house. Right. So we guess we can close the sale, even if we don't have an SOC. So this was just an example. We can build that out and a lot of technology behind it. You have to pick up our goods or an inventory system this season was still there. Yes, it

was funny, because we thought something very similar to that. But then we thought was a little expensive for us to put in place. Start with just enough people.

Yeah. So all those ways are valid, desperate incrementally. So there's no right answer, but you you got the idea, right? It has to be simple. It has to be some it requires your student crazy. I mean, you can go as far as to our idea whenever usability, so we want to know what you took in? Yeah, we're gonna slay the bar goes up or down or, or whatever, right? You could get crazy, but you can't test that and implement that. Right off the bat. You can't refactor too much. So that's an example of customer design. So you can see, here's the customer, right? Here's the business side. So again, can we get the funnel? Right? Is the ROI there? Yeah, thinking about both perspectives all the time. Okay, there's a way to build this gap. So anyway, stop. That's a perfect example of how we have now versus after the test. And we actually happened just in case, we're no good, and it was way too expensive. And we just can't do that. We'll see.

All right. So yeah, we were talking about, you know, farming hypothesis, and coming up with tests to validate and to help influence your design, right? Yeah, those are all those are all kind of, from me, startup. Joshua, Curiosity was kind enough to Damascus, myself, to actually look at the common agile practices that we're very familiar with, and kind of map them as best he could against the Lean Startup practices, just to show that there's actually a lot of similarity and commonality between these things. Many of these are pretty good. So we just think are a stretch. But if you want to know more about this, you can you can search for Joshua and find this on his website.

Okay. We move on to the third topic that we see people get up. Sounds like one of the questions you need to get an answer to we're coming up with low cost hypotheses is how much

money are you willing to spend? If the answer to this question

was you have to figure out how much money you're willing to spend it the answer the question? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And here's the cost of everything, right. So the cost to get the answer, and it's costing us by building it, you're absolutely right. So the beauty is it we tend to jump right into the technology? Sounds good. Let's build it right. We're testing acti storage, all customers and other ways of real product examples where they, that's really crazy things, high technology and solutions. 100 million dollar products he tested. Really, really, really lightweight, really hard, and incredible labor cost. Buying herbs make it actually look like they've already built the software. And today's definitely both sides. Okay, so we're gonna get into this video now. So as long as clutch bills were the guys knew that he was a friend of ours. Jeff had no sales practices are involved in this as well. We've got some pretty cool stuff. I wish I had popcorn for you, Louis dairy.

So our apologies to anyone from the gap as we start this Yeah.

At round the North Shore innovation lab experiments, we will have an idea and we'll find a way

we didn't test first. This room we use a different difficulty with it and.

We work on one weekend experiments somebody will have an idea and we'll find a way to figure out how to prove the idea of how to work and this week the innovation lab is going to be building an iPad app with customer feedback after you go through each we wanted to work on store to make sure that you're getting customer feedback as we work so that we were never working on anything that wasn't valued by the customer and only doing things on average. So we'll be building a feature and testing it until we get to the point where we have something that's good enough that we can just leave and leave, I've had mine and have this new thing that customers can use. This is the world's first Flash Builder. It's a flash mob where software team shows up, it builds application at a price location. So the Nordstrom Innovation Lab and we're at the auction store, downtown Seattle, right now the team is just setting up their equipment is we're gonna build an iPad app that helps customers pick the best pair of them, we really don't know what the features are yet, we're gonna use customer feedback as we go along throughout the day and the rest of the week in order to build. So the next thing we're gonna do is user story map. So we're going to sit here and see another outline all the steps to customer take. And actually even beforehand, Holly advice lessons like what are the different things that they might do and how that process might change? If you have something different, we will actually dig into what we have to build and support that process. So

now that we've done a mapping, what do you do a paper prototype, and something that we commonly do in the innovation lab is a great way to show what we'd like to do in a rapid prototype that we can easily throw out change alter, based on the customers, building individual paper slides and our user experience specialist. So we'll bring the prototype to a customer and say, Okay, I have this app. And this is a paper version, like you do kind of use it like you would normally use an app and you can press things interact with them. And then she'll change out the pages based on how the customer uses it. So it's similar experience to the iPad, only an analog version. So it's a two and we have our first working prototype of this app. And how it works is it take my first person license picture, all right, and then I want to compare it to this other paragraph right here. This on the picture, I can just pull these up like this, see which one I like better.

Selling KYV I've been talking to people and doing paper prototypes, we've been coding, building an iPad, we take a stab at something we looked at the paper prototypes they put together might take one at a time, coming forward and grab the most important feature and start implementing it. The really cool thing with this flash middles is that we have actual real customers just today, we deliver four or five different separate features, and I've delivered a swap the iPad itself should go and talk to a customer. And send this letter I had feedback from real customers about this thing that has changed how we did the next thing. It's been really, really great watching day to day, what they've been doing the team to get all the feedback from the salespeople that feedback the salespeople gather from the customers. And it's really an interesting process to kind of come in. On Tuesday, we had no idea what this look like. There's an idea that somebody had to say people take a lot of pictures of themselves and sunglasses and be cool, we could show them side by side to help them make the process better. And that was the idea. They came in. And he built an ability to literally on the spot throughout each day. And by now we actually haven't had a functioning app they go through very intuitive to help look at themselves and make the some less selection process easier, which is pretty cool to watch. So yesterday just like last fire for Nordstrom checkout or progress and she happened to put on polarized glasses, and then held up the iPad in portrait view and was surprised that she couldn't see anything black, we figured out that polarization of the iPad running up and down and the polarization of the glasses running vertical, cancel each other out you don't see anything. But if you turn iPads or landscape you see perfectly fine because the polarization of this UI is fine. Okay, so it was pretty good vice in the store. She just happened but a polarized glasses. And so today, first thing we're going to do is switch into a landscape design and then lock in the aspect ratio of iPads so customers and sales people just naturally pick it up and use it landscape and not trying to go.

Okay, so I'm going to show you what we've been working on the last five days, we've added quite a few features of the week. Take a picture multiple pictures of the customer. The first one, you can see a monitor and then take a second and do a side by side comparison of each class next to each other. So the future where you can rename the picture because we heard from salespeople is a customer trying on quite a lot of glasses, it's helpful to be able to know what order they were taking it in and also rename if you want with a brand or some distinguishing feature of the class. Another feature we added was the ability to zoom and zoom in and really get a good detailed look at the brain side by side. Also to see one of the pictures larger if you want to just interview my friend. You can flip the camera view as well face it forward. So the assessors you take a picture of it this or flip the camera. So take the picture Have yourself is that at the end of it all, we have a new customer, which just erases all of the images and allows the salesperson to start with a new customer,

or just trying to put the final touches on the app. And they said that when we wanted to compare, again, it was unclear where the issues were coming from. And if so, the animation here is trying to solve that problem, make a little more clear what's going on. One of the challenges the software's what you've done, right? And I think the answers really depends on how much time you have at least the most part, they've got time. So so there's time boxed to a week, and we did a week's worth of work, it seems like what we have now something that makes us happy and address the main problems and something that we can track and measure son. So we call that a day, the

application has developed so far, everything's finished everything that we asked for, and even the little roadblocks and glitches that we had stumbled across as being used the app during the week has been solid. And I think that it's going to be really easy to be able to implement into your sale. And I think that we're going to find a lot of success with application, whether it's via a selling tool for us, or if it goes public into a downloadable format, whatever happens generally.

So it looks like you have a project. Right? Yeah. Fun. I mean, you talk to everybody on the team, tell you what the rules were. An important part was, you know, they've always said, Hey, us, Andre, that everybody in this room would do something, or we will lose 500 grand for a week and this. And at the end, we'll see what the value at the end and measure how many people are using the app, whether they want to keep adding additional features for that we've got enough minimal viable product out there that we can ship it out to all of our stores. So it's always adding face to face, face to face, face to face collaboration, iterations time off. Working on the most important things is value first. Working software.

Right, but we didn't skip. I mean, we saw we saw, you know, prototypes, we saw, you know, actual some, you know, some good user experience diagrams, we saw, you know, then the UX and and Dev, delivery and customers all involved together all at the same time.

And we talked to the folks who were on that team, and they did a show it is a seven minute clip. But the US people were pairing with a developer, a prototype to see if this is what we need to build ASAP, right next to him as a right may look at and leverage as much technology, functionality and so much waste in that process. Okay, so this is what we cover today. You know, what changes what we do? And these are three practices that we see as emerging, that we're trying to do more with, we work with, we're trying to really break down that whole UX to Agile confusion about how they fit in teams.

And that's it. It's time for the question and answer. But comments. In the middle available anywhere.

We have the slides available. Yeah, yeah, we'll work with the organizers to make sure that the slide deck is available via the site. And we'll also have it on our website. So SlideShare site, all of our presentations, video, post processing the data

on your site? So great. Question.

Sorry, I missed the middle part of your presentation. So you may have covered this, but how do you whenever you're doing your iterative development, and you're everything very beginning, you talked about using low fi wireframes, in order to be able to sketch out the design without having to do a lot of big upfront design. How do you design your interaction model? How do you how do you handle that? As part of the interact? iterative process is, you know, sometimes my experience has been sometimes if I get too far down the line, and I don't actually have the model that I that I want, or I'm building pieces, but I didn't know how that's going to lead from where I'm at where I need to go.

We didn't cover that today. So the question was, how do you build your interactive model? We just shared some Problems and Solutions, the three things that we see an emerging for that when we do meet, we do feature mapping. And we do feature decomposition to actually do a similar thing here with most of us. We're watching out the features and the highest value features of customer one below, it will actually lay out the composition of the stories and we look at what's the interaction, and we actually draw it down to the thread through that we take painters tape on the wall, we say, Okay, this is one interactive experience. So to get the minimum viable product for this person, we need to have these interactions. So we actually just posted those painters, didn't we call them out? Okay, should we focus on one interaction model at a time, but we didn't cover that today here. Okay, maybe

you had craps enough to look like an acronym? What was that? Oh, yeah. So I covered it fairly early on, is I'm gonna look at it to remember all of them. So.

Does anybody else know off top their head? Because I can? I can't remember. Yes. Yeah. contrast, repetition, alignment, proximity. Right. So that's basically taking into consideration when you're assigning any type of user interface just you know, what draws guy where how much information is too much is not enough, right? How are things aligned and how I posted each other on the screen.

We really just wanted to put over crap in the title in case you have questions, Thomas. Thank you very much.
