Good morning, everyone. Yeah, so a little bit about me. I'm like Charlie said, startling dog 11 years ago. And so I've been doing this a long time started kind of before the manifesto was extreme, extreme programming. I was up in Cleveland, building a couple of agile teams got Nationwide Insurance kind of owned company that we're working for weird child company. And we basically asked asked at some point, hey, can you come help us transform nationwide? And we have people here from nationwide. Anyway, okay, cool. All right. So most people know about us because lien ducks were on a boat and Cleveland since 1892, steamship, um, if you ever come to Cleveland, you're welcome to stop by we have free parking, we got toys, we got a bar. got creative space. So we're right by the rock'n'roll Hall of Fame tied to World War Two submarine. So that's where we're at. And that's where we do a lot of not only coaching, but in teaching, but also product development. As I said, Before, I started this really with Victoria insurance, title insurance, and then nationwide. And when I was asked by name Srini, with the previous CIO, to actually help transform nationwide wages, I basically said, Well, I don't know how to do that. But I know a lot of awesome people in Columbus are also passionate about business agility, and being agile. So I came down to Columbus, I hung out with all the other my co workers that really passionate about this, and we formed a change agent team. And we came up with a plan on how we're gonna try to transform nationwide. And I spent the next six years doing that, I had so much fun doing it that that I eventually left and started lean dog 11 years ago, and that's what we kind of do for a living. So this talk is going to really be about, we're not only what worked at Nationwide, but how we, over the last 11 years have continued to hone the practice, around lean and systems thinking to actually to transform company. So this is gonna be kind of our recipe for success.

And I'm Brian link, I'm really just kind of here as John sidekick. Today, he talks a lot faster than I do. So I'm gonna let him do most of the talking. I have a kind of a long background in working in consulting, I was fixed time fixed price consulting. So it forced me to really learn how to manage scope really well before I can even spell agile. And then I kind of transitioned that into working as a CTO of multiple startups, including Digg out in San Francisco. So that kind of forced me to be really good at continuous delivery. I was learning agile before I even got into it. But since about 2006, or seven, I've been working on nothing but Agile projects, a lot of transformations, big companies, small companies, I've lived all over and have much like John started as a kind of a technologist who stumbled into this, but was always passionate about the process and the business.

So okay, so these are kind of the lean dog, eight steps to towards business agility. Alright, so as I mentioned before, I'm lean dog or typical clients or foreigner, and up in it, we do work with smaller clients, but typically, you know, it's kind of agile at scale. You know, I think that that one of the most valuable things I learned nationwide, and it for those years, still nationwide, was weird. First started a development center nationwide, we didn't, we were really kind of a Scrum and Kanban and XP, but we really weren't about Lean. So once we started really introducing Lean Thinking systems thinking, which is more of a management approach, right then is a process approach like Scrum and Kanban. Once we start embracing lean, and it really kind of held it together, I don't think we would be successful if we didn't do it. So. So my goal today is kind of walk you through our eight steps to business agility and how we go about this. So it's not that we don't I don't like frameworks, okay, it's less safe to add Nexus all. But what I think a lot of the frameworks miss out is it doesn't really consider your culture and your organizational design, okay. And so a lot of times when people implement a framework, they just want to drop it on their existing organization. And I think that's where I think that a lot of people mess up. So it's not that we can't come in to a safe implementation or something once it started, and try to correct it. And I'll talk about how we do that. But basically, I think that there's good goodness in all of this. But I think that how you start is the most important part of any, any, any transformation, do

you go to? The old way of thinking, right? It actually a kind of people think prescriptively. And so they latch on to the framework and think it's going to be a prescriptive answer to get them to the solution. The reality is, we're all stealing bits and parts of this for good reason, because there's great nuggets of knowledge and all the frameworks out there, but the trick is to customize it and deliver it in a practical way, which is what John's going to talk about. So

first step, and we created a bias. So what's an Obi? It's Japanese for big visual room. I started doing this talk in 2008. I caught a big visual room, and all sudden somebody at Nike called it a buyer. And then everybody loved it, because they love Nike, right? So it's funny how words mean things? Yeah, so. So basically, you know, I think that really, what we do is about systems thinking, how do we understand the current system? One of the biggest problems we have is that we're knowledge workers, trying to apply technology to provide business value and In the world that we live in, it's so complex, right, especially in a large scale organization. And so if you're at the company for a year or 20 years, you actually have a completely different understanding of how things get done within that ecosystem. Right? You understand the culture influence, right? How things work, right. And that usually the people that are most excessive, are really good at understanding the system and getting the system to work for them. And that's the culture so. So we basically start with information radiators. So So So basically, the problem with humans are that we want to agree with each other. Like, it's much easier to agree with someone to disagree with someone. So I can just look at you and shake your head and say, Yep, totally on the same page, right? Reality is, if we're off to spine a little bit, then what we think we're going to do next improve the system could be different, right? It doesn't take much but but your next step is going to be based on your current knowledge. So if we aren't at the same baseline for how we're going to start a business agility transformation, we can't get off to a good start, because we're going to disagree about how to get there. So we make things physical, right. And that's information radiators, we put things up on the wall, without realize we aren't on the same page. Now we can actually converge right? And we can see it, let's get on the same page, we all see it the same way. And so this is the first step of our business agility transformation as we build a big visual room. Right, once we all agree on and have a consensus exactly where we're at what the current state is, now we can create an organizational change plan, right? That makes sense that we all agree this is where we should start why we should start here, because there's many ways to go about your transformation, you're

going to see lots of overlap to visual thinking. They everything visual, trying to apply systems thinking at scale being practical.

So we have the Nickelodeon model, cat dog. And so we we bring in we call change agent team was exactly what we did nationwide. I came down here, I said, Hey, we rolled awesome people nationwide that believe in change and want to do this and and they're active learners, right? And then we apply the dogs and we're the cat dog team. Right. And that's kind of that's kind of our committee, right for making change happen. So in any culture, I don't know how many people are familiar with Rogers innovation Bell, but in any culture, you probably have, if you laid your orchard out on here, you have certain amount of people at your company, there are innovators, early adopters, early majority. So these people were waiting in line for the iPhone, right? For two weeks, when they know that if they wait two weeks, they can walk in and get one, right. So they want to be first they want to be on the edge. And then what happens is when you go through a transformation, you really need to get the tipping point and you get about 20% of the organization working agile, and humans will human. In other words, they will copy good things. Okay. So these early majority, once they see what worked for these guys, they're gonna say I want to work like they do. And they say, Okay, I want to work like these people do. These people would just run. Okay, they're your laggards. Okay. They're like, I can't work an accountability culture. So I think the biggest mistake that I see when people start their transformation, is when they drop a framework on top of organization and don't look at their organizational design. They're coaching the wrong people. Okay, if you just drop it on a team, and you have laggards and late majority, right, good luck, right? Because they're gonna be fighting and resisting, and everything that you're supposed to do, they're gonna be setting the example. And our job at lean dog is to build people and not be there forever. When I stack staff augmentation company, right? Our job is to kind of build your internal capability. So you have this energy, and you can continually grow and learn, right, without us. So I think that's probably the number one mistake, I see you in a transformation that amplifies

everything, if you have the people are passionate, actually being your champions, it helps the entire transformation go faster.

And so this is we're gonna talk a lot about a bunch of different customers. We're one of those m&t bank that Brian and I are working on. And lots of people in this room are actually. So we basically usually start with about eight or 10, change change agents. So these are the cats and not the dogs, right. And we facilitate, usually a three day session, and we actually build out visual walls, okay, these are the most important walls, you know, what's your business? What are your products, your customers, your markets, what's your organizational design, so your hierarchy org chart, we're gonna talk about your demand and your demand funnel, we're gonna understand your technology, we're gonna value stream, map out your work, right, and then we're going to create a change plan based on that we can do that in about three days, doesn't have to be perfect, we just have to start somewhere. So the goal is to get on the same page in three days. And after that, let's start Okay, and we'll iterate we'll adapt right where it's never perfect when you start. So the key is start right and keep revisiting it and just keep revisiting it on an iterative basis. We'll talk more about that. We've done crazy ones, like we didn't want it Cardinal Health down here for the fuse, we built 31 walls, okay, in about three weeks, right? It was a different goal, different outcome they're trying to get because they're creating like this innovation hub and, and the team was storming and norming trying to find out what are our roles, and how do we do this. So that one was a much longer engagement. But this pretty much works for anything. We can build lots of walls, but we start with this kind of first six. This is actually the one at Cardinal, the fuse. So you can see basically, it's pretty simple. It's brown paper, it's posted notes. Over here, you can see there's a Value Stream Map over here's their current org design. This is a future org design. So we had to reorg because it basically dropped a bunch of people in the building say B and have a div, right? Not the easiest thing to do. And here's a bunch of legacy code you have to maintain while you do it. Right. So the goal here was to say, Okay, what what is it? We're managing? What's our what's our purpose, our vision? How do we work? How are we organized? Right? And how do we kind of regroup and challenge our org design? It was implausible that everybody they dropped in the fuse was right people, right? Because they just dropped a bunch of people in there. So right away, we knew we had some roadblocks, right, which is, do we have people on the left side of that innovation curve? Or do we have people on the right side, right, and the right side is going to drag down the left? Okay. So this is an example. This is a card of Congress's subsidies visa, that's their big visual room, you know, it's in their cafeteria around a ping pong table, it was only space they had really doesn't matter. What's nice about that it's in a highly visible place, because everybody has to eat. Right? So that meant you got lots of input, and people are just standing around the walls absorbing information, contributing information about their current systems thinking and how work gets done it at Cardinal commerce, when

they're visible, people actually use the walls, which is great. Yeah.

There's another example of Bright Horizons, something Boston daycare childcare company, one of their walls, but again, it starts as cheap. It's easy. This is bright horizon, this is us mapping out their very first wall. So I always start with this wall. What's your business? Right? Why are you there? What's your outcome? How are you organized? What are your products? Right? It seems simple, like because if you work there, you know that, but if you're new to company walk in and you're on day one, you probably have to learn all this, right? So the beauty of this is actually when we interview people at companies, we actually walk them around this room, and they learn all about the company. Here's what we do, here's who we do it for, here's how we measure it, here's the work, here's how we're structured, here's how you fit into this picture, here's the technology you're gonna work on, right? So it creates this kind of integration to the company, right? And, and I typically tell people, if you walk them around this entire room, in the interview process, and at the end of it, they haven't told you how they can actually help just take them out the door. Because you just kind of expose your entire system. And they should be talking about how they can add value to that system. Okay, so it actually serves another purpose.

All right, most companies don't even know their own information. 40% of the whole company doesn't even know what their own company does. So this is a really great kind of level setting for them. Yep.

This is another example when m&t Bank, this is actually their business wall. So this isn't the it This is business agility. Okay. So the whole point, we know that for successful transformations, we want it to be business driven, not it driven, right. And so in this case, we mapped out 375 s VPS. Right, the CEO CIO said, hey, guess what, before we start this agility thing, we need to train the business. Okay. And when I say training the business like three hours with us, teaching them and the CIO teaching about what is what is agility? Why does it matter? Why are we going this way, making sure they understood that it really was about business outcomes moreso than it outcomes.

There's other four layers of management underneath this. This was just to help us understand who the heck is even heard the message yet? And are we getting them in all of the different divisions, so we can build up champions across the entire organization, start spreading the viral agile disease,

they get the CEO appear and works down. And we basically decided to take a top down approach to education. Right, so the same message was heard throughout every everybody that is about to go through this, because they had to recognize we're going to change the company culture. And that's a big deal, right? And nobody likes to say their culture is bad. So he told me going to change it. It's like, okay, well, what's wrong with what we have, right? So it was really an important message from the top and we'll talk about later, we actually use this as a there's you can't see it, but there's actually orange dots on everybody's name that we've actually taught. And then we have another kind of system for the people that we don't think are quite getting that we're getting to do more reinforcement and understanding what what agility is

that same deck that John put together to teach the executives agile, has been sent shrunken down and is now being something that I'm delivering to the 500, project managers and bas throughout the organization.

So noticing that, too, is our technology soup, right? Your business partners need to respect what we actually do. And they're seeing that it side of things. So this is mapping out system architecture, you know, different types of systems, all those blue things are different technology we've implemented provide business value. So it's not like your business partners have to know everything, but they have to have an appreciation for the complexity of the system. We do. So when they asked us to do something, we can talk about all the things that's going to impact and talk about risk and everything else else like that. So sometimes we even go a little bit further and we add all the technical debt. So we actually categorize the tech, we'll put up here how many helpdesk tickets to have what's the usability like? So any kind of metrics around the assets that we can do that we think we need to radiate to our business partners? Now, the demand wall, okay, so this is the biggest problem is that we're all knowledge workers, and everybody wants something from us. They wants to build something to do something. And the demand is usually out of control. It's always too much demand, not a supply. My time went to Ohio State. I got my econ and my engineering degree here. But the demand is, once you make it physical, you're like, holy crap, this is insane. Right? We have we don't have a way to say no, right? We don't have way to private prioritize value, right. So making a visible I mean, we've gotten to the point where we He printed every single helpdesk ticket, put it up on the wall, just to make a point, right? Hey, we know you have quality systems, or we don't even have good design systems. So our design thinking is weak. And that's why we have so many helpdesk calls. And that's why we, in our quality of our code is bad. That's why there's so many tickets. And that's just sold waiting down the business value we deliver. So business agility, right, it's getting rid of that waste and saying, okay, everything we design should work and not require a lot of support internal, external doesn't matter. The world's moving to microservices cloud, you never know what you're going to build internally, it's gonna be external tomorrow, because the market is constantly changing, right? And you have to be able to respond to that market, you have to be able expose your internal stuff for self service, like the way the world's going, okay. So this is usually the biggest wall in the room, excuse me ridiculous how much stuff's up on the wall. But when you put it up, you kind of laugh at it. And we say, Oh, this is stupid. Everybody knows it's dumb. We have way too many way too much work. We're just adding people to lists, right? As if they're going to get what they want, just because we put it on a list. And that's not true. Right? And so when you make it visible, you're like, why do we have so many big lists of things we could do? Right? When we don't have that much capacity is with the organization. Right? Now we next thing we do is we map out your workflow. So Value Stream Mapping lean, right, so how do things get done? Again, another recipe business agility is, what steps do we go through? Has worked come into our work stream has worked get out of our work stream? How do we push to production? How do we deliver value measure value? And when you start mapping this out, it also looks crazy. I mean, I don't think we've ever had a customer didn't have at least 50 to 100 steps,

they don't have a value stream just sitting around. Yeah.

So when you started doing this, you'll look at this a while this is kind of crazy. Look at all the different steps. And so again, business agility is and then flow. You heard that from some of the other speakers, right? How do we reduce steps because we created all this specialization in our craft. And we're knowledge workers. So there's, it's like the telephone game, we're handing knowledge off to the next person, the next person, next person, every single time we do that there's a cost of delay, right? There's waste. So how do we actually shrink this value stream down? So this is a core part of a transformation is understanding that we're going to actually shrink this value stream down, and we're gonna learn how to say no, and shut down that demand wall to saying yes to everything. And I'll get more to about the whole HR and finance implications of that later. That's, that's another value stream that looks really good, looks simple. But that was like six weeks of work to try to understand this one company of actually how their value stream map work. And it's constantly changing. They're constantly now what they're saying is, okay, well, geez, instead of handing knowledge off, can we create T shaped people and cross train people, so we don't have all these gaps in knowledge, right, so that we have to keep waiting on someone else to get the work done. Again, that's business agility. That's why Lean at Nationwide works for us. Because we also started having that waste of mindset and saying, every time there's a step, there's a delay in between, that delays that business outcome from actually happening, right. And why does that delay happen? Is it necessary? Or is it just bureaucracy and politics that got built into a large organization with lots of people trying to get things done in a world where they can't get everything done? Right, that creates a lot of waste in your system? So step two, so everywhere we go, Agile has already started. I mean, manifesto has been around since 2001, right? So at some point, they're either in the middle of an agile invitation or the beginning, but it's probably not working too well. So the first thing we need to do is containment. So, again, we're right now, if you dropped agile on your organization, you didn't look at your org design, you probably have people on the team that shouldn't be on the team. Right? That's kind of reality, right? And so now you're fighting that. So the first thing we need to do is contain it. So how do we do that same thing, we did it nationwide, we said, hey, we need a Florida building, or a boat or a BMW dealership or something cool, right? And we're going to have to take all the people to say they're going to add John, we're going to put them in the same room. Okay, now we can compare apples to apples, right? And we can actually do what we call mob mob coaching on them. So we're doing this at this bank, with open spaces with open spaces. We moved the CIO in his entire leadership team, right? We moved all the teams in that were trying to do it. We knew that we had challenges. Some of the people in the room probably weren't great at servant leadership, we probably didn't even have psychological safety, right? We had people that was just dropped on them. And so our hardest job isn't coaches aren't necessarily coaching you on agile and Kanban, and XP and all that. It's all the people issues, right? So by putting them all in the same room, we could actually say, Okay, now we're going to create this energy. And this is new, this is different. This is the new culture, right? And we're gonna make it small. So we did that. We also formed communities where we do all kinds of lunch and learns and you know, what do you

do and everyone gets to participate in it more. m&t originally wanted us to go around to their 50 buildings around Buffalo and coach them where they were, we're like, Dude, that's not gonna work. And so bringing them all together allowed just tremendous benefit of getting everyone on the same page and everyone hearing the same message over and over again.

And that's what happened that they swapped with a delivery center. That's what happened to Carter with the fuse where we started. We started like looking at it. That's why First thing we did was challenge the organization just cuz we're in the same room doesn't mean we have the right people in the room. We're organized, right? We're working. Right. Right. We have a lot challenges with that. So this was our containment wall. Right? How many teams are up here?

Yeah, it looks like just so many. Some of those are actually representing of multiple teams. We started off with 10, early adopters. And it kind of blossomed into somewhere close to 30. Because some teams turned into multiple teams. And they were like, Oh, we forgot about our support. dudes were like, well bring them over. And then all of a sudden teams are organically growing, which is a much healthier scaling strategy when you're just getting going on a transformation.

This is what the room looks like. So we got to comfortably combine. There was one of the teams whose names that I started off comfortably scrubbing analysis, it was Scrum, NASSCOM, okay. So this is what looks like it's just a big open floor. There's an energy when you walk on the floor, everybody's learning everybody's communicating, right, you can walk to the next team, see what the next team is doing. You can actually see, go to these, we don't call them lunch and learns what we call them.

What do we call them? Learning League, we changed the names a couple of different times, we just didn't like in the afternoon on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and we'll teach people story planning, or we'll teach them about better ways of prioritizing and estimating. And people from all over will just kind of pile in and listen and ask questions. We started doing a Lean Coffee once a week as well. So people can just show up and ask questions. This is like the beginning of an actual Agile community of practice.

So it's a learning culture, right? Not everybody's board has to look the same. We don't care. We're empowering the people to manage their work and learn, right? And so being able to walk over and see different boards in different levels of maturity across agile teams is a good thing, right? It's like, oh, what's working with this team? Humans will human look, if they find something better, and you have the right attitude and aptitude to learn, you're going to try that. Right, you're gonna experiment. And that's how you learn. And so it really is critical. We celebrate it, we take pictures on the way they call it the tree house. That's the space there. So people are coming to the tree house, people come and tour the tree house

you and tours, like guided tours now. So we actually hand them a piece of paper like, hey, go visit these teams and learn something at each teams can kind of take away from the experience, because we built so much momentum. There's always people outside that aren't part of it. Or they're like a little bit of angst is building, I think they're like they want to be included. They want to be with the cool kids doing the Agile stuff. And so we're trying to give them little nuggets, nuggets of things they can start doing every day. You could do stand ups, you could do retros you can do all these things, even if you're still having to follow your old, you know, regulated business waterfall process. Okay,

so the next thing we do establish vocabulary. So again, that's why when we went off site with the cats, then we didn't call them cats. We're salmon Creek. But we went off we wrote a playbook we wrote 21 agile tea leaves, this is what we this is our vocabulary. So you can't have a consultancy, even like lean dog drop a vocabulary on you, we will actually educate you on what we mean by agile. So during this Obeah will actually do a class we'll do eight hours from our playbook saying this is what we mean. We're job as consultants is to stay on the edge of modern product delivery, and business agility. So we're constantly improving our playbook. We just published this fourth edition. But we give you about 80 to 90 practices that we teach. Okay, in this playbook. I mean, then we actually compare what you're calling your agile movement to what's your work. In every culture. There's good words and bad words like, Oh, God, don't use that agile word. Don't call it a stakeholder, or don't call it a steering committee, right? There's certain like, words have meaning because people have history. And so you have to figure out what are the right words for your culture, and then we'll build your playbook with you. A lot of things we teach are these things, servant leadership, lean design, thinking, Kanban, Scrum, extreme programming, DevOps, of course, right. And so they all have a different role. And all depends on how we're going to start that change management plan to take you agile, where we start,

we effectively start threads of each of those in parallel, because it takes a long time to get any of them to build critical mass. So

with all that jargon, at the highest level, this is our simple picture. We call it the balanced team approach. Design thinking is all about the product and the business side, Lean and Agile up at the top and then DevOps and engineering excellence zero defects at the bottom right. So those three things together, we call it balanced team. And we also see people who when they start their business agility thing, they always just start with process, right? Well, you're really behind, you're already you're already 18 years behind a manifesto, right? Scrum was 1995. Okay? And if you're going to embrace design, thinking and engineering excellence, your path business agility is going to be long and hard. Because you can't be agile with crappy software defects, bad design, right? So you really have to kind of start with thinking about wreck accept the fact that you're behind. And that you need to get you start thinking that all three of these circles at the same time, not not sequential.

We shared an awesome story with our Compuware friend yesterday talking about automating the testing on top of their mainframe, and it's like doesn't matter what technology you just have to move it and modernize it so that the whole company can benefit from the use of all your existing assets.

So well bet on me Agile adoption. Whoa, we have our posters out there, but we'll kind of say, Okay, here's the Lean dog playbook. What's your playbook on this example? What Safelite right down the road? Basically, we took our playbook, we hung it up there. We don't assess teams, I actually trust that you hire good people, when you should trust them to tell you the truth. If you can't, then that's your that's your next problem. So what we'll do is we'll bring people in the room and say, hey, we'll train you on what we mean by agile. And you tell us all these different teams? Are we always sometimes never doing the practice? Are we happy about the practice sad about the practice or discipline? Because you could do something and hate it? And there's no, that means there's no value, right? So we bring the teams and we don't go around and say, Hey, we're gonna audit all your agile teams and judge whether you're agile or not, I don't care, right? I expect to bring them in a room, educate them, except then tell us the truth. And the difference is they tell us the truth. And we put up on the wall, that they aren't doing something or they hate doing something. The difference is a servant leaders, we have to fix that. We have to give him the coaching and training. So people will tell you the truth, if they actually get the reward. If they tell you the truth, and you're gonna smash passion for it, they're gonna tell you the truth. That's not the culture we're building. We're building this learning culture and psychological safety to say, I don't know, we do this thing. And it's sucks. But we do it. I'm just doing it. So I get the box, check that that's not that's waste, right? It has to add value to your work, okay? Because it has to provide business agility, you have to get things done. Okay. So it's a simple approach, we lose a lot of gigs, because all the big consulting firms do like, oh, come in for six months and audit the heck out of your agile or we'll do it in like a day, you can start by teaching people and trusting people and having them tell us what's working, what's not working, right and believing them. Right? And saying, Okay, we'll help you get past that. Good. I

was just gonna say in six months of doing assessment, you can actually start doing the things. Yeah. make progress.

Okay, so next important part, and this is another failed business agility? Is it if this comes in it thing? And so it's a matter of how do we actually drive this from the top down? And so this is an example that same wall, you get the CEO, the CIO, they're looking at that wall, and we're talking with them about how are we going to convince them what business agility isn't? Why we're doing this? Okay. How are you? How are you going to build that message in from the CEO across the bank, right, about what we're doing and why we're doing this. So what in this case they have an entire was 10 people in a communications team? Yeah. Okay. That's how much people so many people are working, just communicating what business agility is, why it's so important, especially in the FinTech space, right, and how we need to get modern in our product delivery. And so if we come in, and we're only working with the CIO probably not going to work, right, we need to be working with that guy who the CEO, right? Because that's the person who has to really believe in this, and not just think this is just it getting better, that realizing that technology, we have to embrace technology and everything we do it, it's a business outcome, not a it outcome. So

servant leadership is a huge part of everything we're doing. Like we said, we've started from the top, just getting the executives, we're working with the teams helping them get connected to those value streams. But in the middle, we have layers and layers of managers do we have to help them change the way they think. And so we've been working through, you know, just the basics of servant leadership and telling them what to stop doing and what to start doing, and what things to keep doing their skill set is actually still very valuable. And so we're trying to reinforce these messages, because a lot of people start getting freaked out about whether there's a role for them or not the business analysts, the project managers, the HR managers are the people in the teams. These 10 characteristics of servant leadership from Robert Greenleaf is just an awesome place to start. And like just hearing the fact that your job is to listen like actively listen, actually care about your people, help be a steward to help people accomplish their missions actually help them in their careers. Ask them, how can I help you instead of, you know, what have you done for me. And those just basics are really helpful. And sometimes we've realized people just haven't heard it before. And so by telling them and sharing with them, they have the capability to do this innately. They've just been rewarded to do other things their whole career. We also love this book sense and respond to the the client brought Jeff got health and actually speak on these topics. And these seven things really resonate with them. There's eight things we actually split one of them up, just having, you know, safety to fail being transparent. And they have these little catchphrase, they love this, you know, bias towards action, but actually aligned with the vision. And

so part of that is getting from the top Hey, guess what, we are going to reorganize or organizational design? We are not we are going to have less middle management. Yep, we are. Right. We because we're going to empower the people to actually be people right and not have so many layers is that means as middle managers, one of his favorite, Mike's favorite quotes is prepare to get uncomfortable. Because you're gonna get uncomfortable, and not all you're going to be in the same role that you're in today. And he says, Tell him be completely honest and transparent right up front. Yeah, if you're worried. Yep. Some of you probably shouldn't be right. If you're laggards in my organization's or your late majorities. Yeah, probably ought to be a little bit nervous, right, because there will be fallout. So I say 10 In anywhere from 10 to 20%, okay of the organization, the laggards will leave. Okay, once we finally get over that tipping point. So this is an example of Cardinal Health, Brent, they're really good leader, bring his management team on being humble in front of them, say, hey, we all have a vote on everything. Just because I've got this title on the ball doesn't mean that I have more votes, right? I value all of your brains. And we're going to create decision frameworks that are collaborative, right? Not authoritative, not command and control. Okay? And that has to be, it has to be upheld. And that means that the highest paid kind of room doesn't always get what they want, right? It's the team that decides, right? Next thing we need to do is kind of shift now the business right, step forward to product and design thinking, okay. We're now fun people and we fund products, we don't fund projects, there were projects xe go away. Okay. Which is huge, right? Think about that. Because the world's project, I get my money, I get in line, everything I can out here, I hope to hell, I get what I want. When money runs out, right? That shift has to happen. Okay, the best product company in the world, our product companies, they aren't project companies. Okay, that's old. That's old school thinking. And I'll talk about how a lot of things have to change how to make that shift happen. We want to focus on the right outcome versus the right output. Okay, so we just got something done. But was it right that we get the right business outcome, because if you're running a project mentality, you get in line you get, I spend my money, I get something, if I don't get the right outcome, it doesn't matter. I'm out of money, I'm out of line, right? I never achieved the business result. So we need to be completely business result focused. And that might mean doing things once, twice, 310 times. Until we get that outcome. If we're immature in design thinking is probably going to take us longer. If we're more mature in design thinking we'll probably get closer to right the first time because what she actually listened to our customers and not try to be our customers. So that's where design thinking and sensor respond come in. So a lot of people are talking about your digital transformation, customer journeys. That's kind of how people are thinking about what's the journey, the customer on? How do we connect that? What is that end to end experience seamlessly throughout my, my corporation, where do they self serve? Where don't they self serve, and really embracing that? Almost everywhere we go, there's not enough design thinking, right? This is not like one person to 10 teams or something crazy, right? And we don't even take the things we do internally and take the same passion for building great internal products, as we do external products. And in modern software delivery, you have to recognize the fact that anything you do internally could be exposed externally for self service at some point, so why not build it for for design thinking from from upfront? Step five, is really this is kind of the hardest thing is, how do we say no? Like, how do we actually manage that demand funnel? We have that crazy wall with 2 million things to do and, and to honor people to do it, and there's no way we're gonna get it done. So how are we actually do this. This is an example of a journey map. So this is basically looking at a customer's experience going across all of these different different life cycles. And then these things down here are actually agile teams that were standing up to support different phases of the journey.

And in the middle, there are the capabilities that they recognized and assets that they already had. This is kind of how the company is trying to tie their brand new vision and mission to all of the teams of execution.

I'm putting an executive portfolio together actually calling it an executive portfolio. So they show up and look at it, it's been is really helpful because it forces them to actually see it all on one page. Next week, actually, they're putting up this is just one division, they have six of these, and they're going to put them all up on the wall. And it'd be the very first time in over 100 years of history that they've ever seen their business strategy on one room, in

no the cost these teams these people, right, cuz we fund people, we fund products, right? Yeah. So what's the cost for these people to support these products they discovered

was their strategic element, the thing that gives them competitive advantages, that second column, and they don't have a single team at the bottom down there. So like, oh, we have to shift things, we have to actually move people from over here to over there in order to actually achieve the value we're looking for for our customers.

Okay, so now it's it's how do we actually scale Okay, so we built this big visual room. We spent a couple of days together we educate we baseline right now we say okay, now what do we do next? Where do we started? We get into containment? What's our strategy going to be? There's lots of strategies, some lean dog isms, but the containment right we contain these groups, we put them in the tree house, we got them small, we coaching on them, we're we're uplifting them, we're graduating them, right we're putting them out back out in the wild. There's going to be pop up sales, okay? And not terrorism sales, but hopefully good pop ups team because the CEO and the CIO are talking about going to business agility, and explaining educating breadwinners is so good people right on that curve who say I want to start I'm gonna go to business agility conference, I'm going to go to CSM training, I'm going to go to safety and whatever it is, right? You can't when people want to learn and improve you, it's hard to say no. So these pop up, things are going to happen. So almost in every strategy we do for training Automation, we also recognize we're going to have to keep continue to contain the excitement and the energy. And sometimes when a pop up sale happens, we say, Hey, stop. We don't have you can't or we said, Great. Come on into the Treehouse, and we have capacity will embrace you, right? So we have a backlog of teams pop up cells that we know we need to contain. They're probably not under the right org design, because it just popped up and people on the team were on their team, right? But that's okay, that that happens. The other model was lift and shift. And by that what I mean is you act like a startup, you take another space, or the same space as, hey, we're gonna build 10 agile teams, and they're 12 to 15 person teams. And if you want to apply to be on one apply, and anybody in the company can actually interview to apply, okay, and we'll hire them just like we're startup, we're starting a new company within our company. And they have to prove to us that hey, that Yeah, I actually am I am on the left side of that curve. And it's how you know it because I go to conferences, I go to meetups, I read books, you know, I have a mentor, I, you know, how are you showing me that you're actually on the left side of the curve versus the right, like, what behaviors have you exhibited, right to prove that you're worthy of coming into this, you know, applying for this new job in this new company, okay. And so that creates an excitement. Another concept is what we call the amoeba. So we build a team, right? We usually take six months to a year to get them kind of mature, depending on how much we're doing. And then we split the cell. Okay? So it's Alright, great. That's an awesome team, you guys are great. Now six of you are gonna go start another team, and you six are gonna hire six people to replace those six. Okay. And so we'll do that kind of split cell approach, right? So that's also a good strategy. Some companies do the boot camps, like if you go to Target dojo.com. That's the most famous one, right? Are we doing tech academies, where you actually say, we're going to immerse you in a fake project, or even a real project for 12 to 14 weeks to a bootcamp, teach you all the practices, and then put you back out in the wild? It's hard to do, because when you get back to the wild, you have all the constraints of the value stream not working. So it's hard to do this, but some companies do it. And every week, we're bouncing up against Safelist, dad and Nexus all over the place. And that's okay. We just need to figure out how can we kind of reset those movements so that we were actually have the right people, right on those teams.

There's hardly any companies out there that are dislike saying, Hey, we're ready to get started come help us. They've already tried something, they're already working on something. So you have to work with where they are, meet the customer, where they are, and help them heal, where they've been figured out how to go forward. So

let me tell you this example, that looks like a really simple board. There's lots of hours in front of that board trying to figure out what to do. What is our change plan? So we knew we'd have a containment strategy, we knew we could build new teams, but now we're going to refactor around business capabilities. Okay. So I don't we don't go anywhere where there's only one approach to business agility, because it just doesn't make sense. There's because you have multiple things you need to manage. And so it's a discussion and it has to be your plan. And you have to build that plan. We can't build it for you. Step seven, is we now need to this is the hardest two things ever to do is shift your finance thinking and your HR thinking. Okay, so remember, you know, if we value people, and we're fixing people, right, we need to focus on insourcing. Okay, we're hiring 2000 jobs back from India, right? Because we recognize that people are, that's our knowledge workers are what gives us that competitive advantage. It's hard to do when you're across the pond, there's a huge delay, especially if you're not doing behavior driven development or acceptance test driven development. But the point is that a lot of people, you know, we're all these business entity, you see this INSOURCE outsource right thing go on all the time, we're finding that the companies that really are achieving high levels of business agility are insourcing. Okay, because the people actually work for the company not work for a consultant who works for the company. And we're not swapping those people out, right, based on other client needs. So having that kind of continuity, in your knowledge workers is extremely important to improving flow, because if you keep swapping the people out, right, your value stream map keeps getting longer, right, you're lacking knowledge to actually do the work, right?

MN T is actually leveraging that to their advantage. They've announced to the entire city of Buffalo, we're hiring 2000 people, and it's now a publicity event as well as it is a growth strategy for them. And they're building this technology community center in the biggest building downtown Buffalo. And it's all of a sudden become like this huge momentum builder for not just m&t but the whole city of Buffalo.

So the next thing to do is change how we get paid. Okay? So if you think about it, if all the executives that begin in the year say, Okay, well, great, I have a budget, I'm going to set my objectives, right. And I'm gonna set in everybody wants to exceed right. So they're gonna set lofty goals for what they can achieve. It's not possible that every executive can actually achieve those things. So right away, you're you're blown up that demand wall to be a false false reality, right? Because everybody's competing to get stuff done. It's not possible. So we need to do is change our x EHR incentives where it's actually about the team's outcome, not the individual performance. And that's the biggest problem I have with HR is all the individual performance models don't really work. In fact, as an HR I almost got fired because when I had to figure out how to do raises, I said, God, I don't No, no. And I bet she kind of exposed everybody's rough salaries. And I said, Why don't you Oh vote, I'm gonna be able to give up 4%. So I gave him wooden nickels, half, half a percentage point, we did this kind of game and we did some gamification around, how do we decide if Charlie makes more or you're definitely more. And so the team had to figure out how to do that balancing of handing out the money, not me. And then as a manager, I took that very last moment, I moved something that half a percent. So I can say, I actually did my job, right to check that box. But reality is, this is a big deal. Not only do the rewards have to change, the executives, throughout the company, is really about outcome. And if the reality is we only get a certain percentage, let the teams decide of my team who's more worthy of that money than I am. Right? And do that all the way up to executive level. This is a big deal. So it's hard to do. Not many companies actually make this leap. Yeah, I think 11 years, maybe three. And

yet people talk about it. They know that the hero culture and rewarding individuals are hoarding knowledge and becoming experts in one particular thing. That's what they used to do. And now we have to encourage the teams to be cross functional and self sustaining all these things that the HR policies and the and the Agile momentum don't quite align quite nicely at everyone knows they need to do it. But it feels like the hardest thing to do, just like the funding. Yep.

So again, we're funding people and products over projects, that's probably the biggest takeaways like, so we have to change, change the models to support that if we don't change the compensation systems, and finance systems, then the behaviors don't change. Okay, because you're still playing the same game, every wants to make more money, everybody gets funding, right, I want to get the most I can't wait to get funding. So you really can't kind of change the true business's ability, if you don't take these things on. And I say these things like their steps, really, all these things are kind of in parallel, right? When you start your business agility transformation needed to kind of do all these things at once. And be honest, the fact that, hey, we have all these different things we need to do at the same time, you know, are we engaged with our financing our legal when our facilities and and you know, are we educating our CFO on how things need to change? Or why they need to change, right? Or are we just like pulling them along like IT folks and saying, Yeah, we want to work agile, so you must work agile, right? That doesn't work.

And, you know, we started talking to the finance folks at m&t about Beyond Budgeting and all the kinds of the agile ways of treating finance. And they just said, You know what, we can't deal with that yet. We're just going to do same old budgeting craziness. What do they call it? They call it the Thunderdome that bring your business requirements and you know, arm wrestle for funding, they're going to do that, again, in spite of all of the momentum they built with agile, they're gonna do their budgeting process the same way in 2020. But they're committing to 2021 to change their funding model, so that they can actually align to their teams as the currency model. The fact that Mike the CIO says that just warms my heart, he said, the teams are the currency, he gets it, he knows that you don't have to count hours anymore, you don't have to worry about that you can actually deal with all the capitalization and all the things that go along with that if you actually use the teams as the currency.

So step eight is really just use that leverage that of Byron, Byron doesn't go away, we're continually updating it. If you, you'll see that some things become high fidelity, right? Things that don't change much we make them prettier, because we'll have enough wall space. But we actually meet in iterations, right, other bi weekly or monthly, and we come in and we say, How are we doing that change management print plan here? How are we doing moving towards business agility? How are we measuring that we're getting there? Right. And that room becomes like a living, breathing pulse of that culture. Because anybody walking, it's funny. Sometimes we do this when you have a C level person leaving, like, we just felt like Joanne fabrics, a good example, they were shopping for a CIO, okay, well, if you're CIO, and you walk in a culture, like, Hey, I'm going to take I'm an interview with all these people go run the gauntlet, you really don't know what you're getting into until you get in there. Right? You hear all the lip service about how the systems work, what's working, what's not working? What do you need to fix. So we'll build out in a buyer room and they'll walk in, in fact, the guy was in the middle of winter last year, and he's like, I never met him, but he's like, Oh, thank God, you actually build up that room because I didn't know what I was getting into. And I'm walking around in a cold room today, understanding all the work all the demand all the business functions, right? And understanding the system, right? And the culture that I'm about to inherit and understand, okay, my job is to get help get to the next level. Okay, so we build these advisors for lots of purposes. But it just works. It's I tell people kind of going Agile is kind of like going back to kindergarten, right? We all sit in a big open room, we put our homework up on the wall. Everybody knows who the bigger better reader is. Right? We have recess. We have fun, right? We have a continual learning environment, we don't judge people, right? I don't know if you're gonna be, you know, a rocket tear or, you know, you know, fire me doesn't matter, right? We just value people. And so by building this kind of living, breathing by room, it was saying is we welcome everybody's knowledge. And if you walk in on day one and want to be part of this system, this is the system. Yeah, and there's parts of it that are really bad, right? And we know that but we need to improve this system and we need to achieve business agility by honing the system and reducing waste, be more efficient, be more transparent creating this culture. And so when people walk into it, you kind of get a feeling for exactly how you fit into that piece. And you also start getting appreciation what everybody else does, right in their role, because you got hired probably to do one thing and several things. But then there's other people have other responsibilities to manage parts of that system to get things done, where there's Security, Architecture, doesn't matter. It's everybody has a role towards business agility. More

complicated you are, the more you need all that visualization. Some Some problems are just so complex, people can't get their heads wrapped around it unless they've actually seen it visually. And that's what these rooms accomplish is that people can soak in so much more information than they're able to consume. People are overwhelmed with all the emails and newsletters. So just coming into a room and being able to take what they want and learn what they want is powerful.

So we'll bring the executives in the room will do show and tell us about our change plan, how we're doing, what business outcomes, we're trying to achieve, what's working, what's not working. Once teams graduate, we push them back out of the treehouse out of the nest or development center. Then we'll do gimble walks, which is lean means going to the floor to actually assign a coach or someone to say, hey, you have these 10 teams and 10 buildings and you're gonna visit with them every once in a while. And not only are you going to understand what's working, not working for them. If we uncover better ways of working, right, then we'll also share them with them. So we create this kind of these practices of sharing and learning, right? It's just part of the culture and it's healthy. You want people to come gimble walk your place, right because that means if they can help you they will, right? I'm not here to inspect you. I'm here to help you. If I can rather bring you something or take away something from you. That's awesome. Okay, and that's part of the culture
